Prof. Chattopadhyay received his bachelor's degree in Chemistry from St. Xavier's College, Kolkata, and a master's in the same subject from IIT Kanpur. He obtained his Ph.D. from the State University of New York (SUNY) at Stony Brook and was a postdoctoral fellow at the University of California, Davis. Subsequently, he joined the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad. Currently, he is an Adjunct Professor, Department of Biosciences and Bioengineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati. Currently, he is an Emeritus Professor, Biological Sciences, Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research and J.C. Bose Fellow, Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology. He has recently been awarded 'The World Academy of Sciences' (TWAS) prize 2016.


Prof. Chattopadhyay's work is focused on monitoring organization, dynamics, and function of biological membranes in healthy and diseased conditions. His research group has developed and applied novel and sensitive techniques such as the wavelength-selective fluorescence approach using fluorescence spectroscopy for monitoring solvent relaxation in membranes, membrane-mimetic media, and proteins. These pioneering studies have led to a better understanding of the dynamics of hydration of membranes and proteins.

He is positioned as a J.C. Bose Fellow, Outstanding Scientist at Center for Cellular and Molecular Biology, and the Dean of Biological Sciences at the Academy for Scientific and Innovative Research. He is an Adjunct Professor at the Special Center for Molecular Medicine, Jawaharlal Nehru University; Indian Institute of Science; Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur; Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai; Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali; and Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, Australia. He is an honorary faculty member at Jawaharlal Nehru Center for Advanced Scientific Research, Bangalore.Prof. Choudhuri received his bachelor's degree in Physics from the Presidency College, Calcutta University, in 1978. In 1980, he completed his masters in the same subject from IIT Kanpur. In 1985, he obtained his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago under the guidance of Prof. E.N. Parker. From 1985 to 1987, he was a visiting scientist at the High Altitude Observatory, National Center for Atmospheric Research, Boulder, U.S.A. In 1987, he joined the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore as a lecturer and continued to work there as a Professor with the Department of Physics. Prof. Choudhuri has recently been elected as a Fellow of 'The World Academy of Sciences' (TWAS) 2016 for making fundamental contributions towards the advancement of science in developing countries.



Prof. Choudhuri is a theoretical astrophysicist who primarily works on MHD problems related to the Sun though he has worked on other astrophysical systems such as AGNs, jets, accretion, pulsars as well. He is one of the originators of the flux transport dynamo model, which he used to make the first successful prediction of a solar cycle from a theoretical model. Most of his papers are written on the generation of solar magnetic fields by the dynamo process and the formation of sunspots by the buoyant rise of flux tubes. Together with his students, he has developed a code-named 'Surya' for solving the basic equations of solar dynamo theory. In 2005, he released the guide prepared for using this code to the public. He is an author of two books: The Physics of Fluids and Plasmas: An Introduction for Astrophysicists and Astrophysics for Physicists. One of his papers (Choudhuri, Chatterjee and Jiang 2007, PRL 98, 131103) was selected as the "Editors' Suggestion" in Physical Review Letters - one of the world's highest honors for a physics paper.Prof. Sandip Trivedi completed his master's in Integrated Physics in 1985 from IIT Kanpur. In 1990, he completed his Ph.D. in theoretical Physics from California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, USA. From 1990 to 1992, he worked as a post-doctoral research associate at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, New Jersey, USA. From 1992 to 1994, he was a John A. McCone post-doctoral research fellow in the Department of Physics at California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, USA. Later, he joined the Department of Theoretical Physics at the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, Batavia, Illinois, USA, as an Associate Scientist and worked there till 1999.



In February 1999, he returned to India and joined the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, as a Reader. As a theoretical physicist, he specializes in string theory, cosmology, and particle physics. He has made important original contributions to several areas of theoretical physics. He is credited with finding the first models of accelerated expansion of the universe in low energy supersymmetric string along with other fellow researchers. He is also well known for his pioneering contribution in the proposal of cosmology with a small positive cosmological constant, within the framework of a consistent theory of quantum gravity.

Prof. Trivedi's work has won him several prestigious awards and recognitions. In 2010, he was awarded the Infosys Prize in Physical Sciences category for finding an ingenious way to solve two of the most outstanding puzzles of Superstring Theory simultaneously: What is the origin of dark energy of the Universe? And Why is there no massless scalar particle? He is a fellow of the Indian National Science Academy (2012) and the Indian Academy of Sciences (2006). He is now a member of the program advisory board of the International Center for Theoretical Sciences (ICTS).

Since January 2015, Prof. Trivedi has been serving as the Director of TIFR.In 1972, Prof. Jain received his bachelor's degree in 1972 in Chemical Engineering from IIT Kanpur. In 1974 and 76, he received his MS and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Delaware on the same subject. From 1976 to 1978, he served as an Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering at Columbia University. In 1978, he joined Carnegie Mellon University where he worked as an Assistant Professor from 1978 to 1979, an Associate Professor from 1979 to 1983, and a Professor from 1983 to 1991 of Chemical Engineering. He is a Mentor to more than 100 doctoral and postdoctoral students from over a dozen different disciplines, and a collaborator of over 100 clinicians and scientists worldwide. Prof. Jain's findings are summarized in more than 435 publications, including three in Scientific American. In 1991, he became the Andrew Werk Cook Professor of Radiation Oncology (Tumor Biology) at Harvard Medical School and Director of Edwin L. Steele Laboratories of Tumor Biology at Massachusetts General Hospital. In 2014-2015, he was among the top 1% cited researchers in Clinical Medicine.



Prof. Jain is regarded as a pioneer in the area of the tumor microenvironment and widely recognized for his seminal discoveries in tumor biology, drug delivery, in vivo imaging, bioengineering, and bench-to-bedside translation. He is most celebrated for proposing a new principle 'normalization of vasculature' for the treatment of malignant and non-malignant diseases characterized by abnormal vessels that afflict more than 500 million people worldwide. This concept has fundamentally changed the thinking of scientists and clinicians about how antiangiogenic agents work, and how to combine them optimally with other therapies to improve the treatment outcome in patients.

Prof. Jain has served and continues to serve on advisory panels to government, industry, and academia, and is a member of editorial advisory boards of 22 journals, including Nature Reviews Cancer and Nature Reviews Clinical Oncology. He has received more than 75 awards from engineering and medical professional societies/institutions. Cancer is spreading at an alarming rate, especially in developing countries like India, which are expected to show steep growth in a number of cases reported. Prof. Jain's work will go a long way in giving effective treatment for those suffering from the disease..Mr. Murthy started his career at IIM Ahmedabad as the chief systems programmer. He started a company named Softronics. When that company failed after about a year and a half, he joined Patni Computer Systems in Pune. Blessed with a brilliant mind and astute business sense Mr. Murthy and six software professionals founded Infosys in 1981 with an initial capital injection of Rs 10,000, which was provided by his wife Sudha Murthy. Infosys is a global software consulting company headquartered in Bangalore, Mr. Murthy served as the CEO of Infosys during 1981 - 2002, as the Chairman and Chief Mentor during 1981 - 2011, and as the Chairman Emeritus during August 2011 - May 2013. Under his leadership, Infosys was listed on NASDAQ in 1999. Mr. Murthy articulated, designed, and implemented the Global Delivery Model, which has become the foundation for the huge success in IT services outsourcing from India. He has led key corporate governance initiatives in India. He is an IT advisor to several Asian countries.



In 1996, it started its office in Europe, Milton Keynes, UK and it was selected as the "The India's Most Respected Company" by the Business World Survey in 2002. Now, Infosys and its subsidiaries have 130,820 employees.

Mr. Murthy serves as an independent director on the corporate board of HSBC and has served as a director on the boards of DBS Bank, Unilever, ICICI and NDTV. He also serves as a member of the advisory boards and councils of several educational and philanthropic institutions, including Cornell University, INSEAD, ESSEC, Ford Foundation, the UN Foundation, the Indo-British Partnership, Asian Institute of Management, a trustee of the Infosys Prize, a trustee of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, and as a trustee of the Rhodes Trust. He is also Chairman of the Governing board of Public Health Foundation of India. He serves on the Asia Pacific Advisory Board of British Telecommunications. In 2005 he co-chaired the World Economic Forum in Davos.

Mr. Murthy created Narayana R Murthy Foundation at IIT Kanpur. Under this foundation we have several activities. A support is given to 13 Academic Departments and 5 IDPs every year and 2 new faculty members in CSE Dept are given initiation grant. This foundation also provides support for hostel renovation, CSE Building maintenance, Research I Foundation which supports various initiatives of CSE Dept and also provides fellowship to PhD students in the name of Infosys Fellowship.

Mr. Murthy was conferred with the IIT Kanpur's Distinguished Alumnus Award for creating and building an outstanding entrepreneurial venture putting India on the international software map.Mr. Arvind Pradhan received his bachelor's degree in Mechanical Engineering from IIT Kanpur in 1974. Later, he went to Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio where he studied for a Master's degree in the same subject and an MBA degree as well.

Since then, Mr. Pradhan has held several management positions in the areas of engineering, plant management, project management, materials management, new facility program management and financial audits and analysis. He has worked with organizations like Corning Glass Works and Eaton Corporation. As a part of Eaton's corporate group, he worked extensively on due diligence assignments, acquisition strategy and analysis, and new acquisition management. Before taking plunge as an entrepreneur, for several years, he ran his own manufacturing consulting practice supporting Fortune 500 companies. His capabilities include strategic direction development, manufacturing facility redesign, new systems development, supplier alliances, training and personnel development.



In 2013, Mr. Pradhan won the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur Award under the automotive category for Michigan and Northwest Ohio region. The award recognizes the outstanding high-growth entrepreneurs who demonstrate excellence and extraordinary success in areas of innovation, financial performance and personal commitment to their businesses and communities.Mr. Naveen Tewari obtained his bachelor's degree from Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur and earned his Master's in Business Administration (MBA) from Harvard Business School (HBS). At HBS, he was a recipient of the "Dean's Award," the highest student honor, for his exceptional leadership and contribution. Mr. Tewari started his career at McKinsey & Company, where he worked on developing the go-to-market strategy for a large Indian conglomerate's entry into the telecom sector. While working there, he also had the opportunity to work with the top management of various technology companies on key business issues. Thereafter, he joined Charles River Ventures (CRV), a top tier VC firm focusing on early stage investments in the software and communications space. Shri Tewari worked with CRV on developing their India investment strategy. He also worked briefly with a mobile VoIP startup in the Silicon Valley.Dr. Chowdhury did his B.Tech. in Electrical Engineering from IIT Kanpur in 1992, and subsequently went on to earn his MS in Electronics and Communications Engineering and PhD in Business Administration & Management Policy degrees from Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, USA. Dr. Chowdhury started his career as a Project Executive with Philips India. Post his Ph.D. in the US, he joined KPMG. During his career, he rose quickly from a Consultant, to become one of the youngest Partners of KPMG in the US. Subsequently, he worked in several leadership roles in BearingPoint and KPMG in US, Australia and with Reliance Industries, IBM, Reliance ADAG, in India. While working with BearingPoint, he led the system integration practice for major companies, including Vodafone, British Telecom, Verizon, Singtel, Australia Post, BHP, Coles Myer, National Australia Bank, Cadbury Schweppes and GE Capital. He served as the CEO of BearingPoint in Australia before moving to India in 2006.


In 2012, Dr. Chowdhury joined Reliance Jio where he worked as the Chief Information Officer (CIO) and also became the President of the Enterprise Business unit. He also had astint as the VP and Partner of IBM Global Services in India. He was also the CIO of Reliance Communications during its growth phase. He has also served on the Board of Directors of Tele Management Forum (TMF) and as the founder of Digital Bridge Foundation -a non- profit organization which helps bridge the Digital Divide in India through computer-assisted constructivist education. Dr. Chowdhury has held CXO roles across several Global companies and is a Visiting Faculty and Member of Dean's Advisory Committee at Carnegie Mellon University. He is a Graduate of the Australian Institute of Company Directors and also a certified Independent Director in India. He sits on the Board of ABM Knowledgeware and Metrology Data Limited (a Division of BARC).



Currently, Dr. Chowdhury serves as the Managing Director and Founder of the Gaia Smart Cities, an IoT and AI company focused on telecom and ICT solutions for smart cities and smart sites. He is working with several cities in India to define their Smart Cities solutions and building unique propositions to solve urban problems in the cities. He is also the technical advisor of BARC, India. He was also contracted as the CTO of Brookfield Properties in India. He is also the founder of SesoVera Inc. a US incorporated Edge compute AI platform and solutions company.

Being an entrepreneur at heart, Dr. Chowdhury has been mentoring, angel funding, and incubating several start-up companies in diverse areas in India. He is serving on the Board of 4 Start-ups. He is associated with NEN, Total Start, Business World Accelerate programs and is a part of Mumbai Angels & CIO Angels. He is the author of a bestselling career management book titled 'Rules of the Game' published by Bloomsbury India. The book empowers readers to enhance productivity and fast-track their careers. He is also a regular speaker on the TEDx platform.She completed her primary education in Jagdalpur. She pursued engineering in electronics from National Institute of technology (NIT) Raipur and completed M. Tech from IIT, Kanpur in 1988.



Sonal, an IPS officer of batch 2000 from Tamil Nadu cadre, played a highly commendable role in controlling crime and maintaining law and order in Trichi, Krishnagiri, Erode and Chennai in Tamil Nadu during her service period. She has also served the Special Information Bureau (SIB).

Currently, she is posted as the Deputy Inspector General of Police (Administration) at Naya Raipur, Chhattisgarh.Mr. Ashok Kumar Meena completed his B.Tech. in Computer Science & Engineering in 1992 from IIT Kanpur. In 1993, he joined the Indian Administrative Services (IAS) and since then has worked in different capacities with the State and the Central Governments, in particular with the Orissa government. Alongside his administrative responsibilities, he continued increasing his knowledge in subjects of his interest.



Mr. Meena started out as an IAS officer trainee in the Mayurbhanj District of Orissa. He later donned the roles of an Assistant Collector at Mayurbhanj, a Sub Collector and SDM at Berhampur, and a Project Director at Ganjam, Orissa. His work in the rural and tribal belts of Orissa brought him face-to-face with the real India and impacted him tremendously. From June 2000 to April 2001, he was posted at Keonjhar as a Collector and District Magistrate. At Keonjhar, a mineral rich area, he played a daunting task of maintaining cordial relations between mine owners and workers. He also ensured that the Gram Panchayats participated actively in discussing and debating the various development issues related to education, health, roads, agriculture etc. thus resulting in a responsive and inclusive governance in the district. From 2001 to 2006, he worked with the different ministries and departments of the Government of India including the Ministry of Water Resources, Ministry of Human Resources and Development, and the Department of Commerce. During that time, he was involved with many crucial projects such as formulation and enactment of SEZ Act 2005, preparation of National Water Policy, solving river water disputes and many more. Owing to this work, he developed an interest for International Trade, and Export Promotion issues and Policy Making.

In 2006, Mr. Meena again joined the Orissa Government as the Managing Director of IDDCO. During his one-year tenure at IDDCO, the corporation grew by more than 125%. He also implemented the Orissa R & R Policy, 2006 considered to be one of the best Rehabilitation and Resettlement policies of the country. As a Revenue Divisional Commissioner for Central and Northern Division, he administered 10 districts of Orissa and also worked as the Chief Administrator for the world famous Shri Jagannath Temple at Puri. Till 2011, he worked with the5 Orissa government on Industrial Promotion, Single Window Facilitation and externally aided projects.

Currently, Mr. Ashok Kumar Meena works as the Joint Secretary of the Department of Food Supplies and Consumer Welfare. He continues to strive to contribute substantially towards the policy formulation, required in the changed economic context, where public services can be delivered with an effective private sector participation. In future, he wishes to get involved with the International Development for poverty reduction.Born in Eluru in West Godavari, Andhra Pradesh, on 11th August 1949, he did his schooling in Korukonda Sainik School. In 1969, he graduated in B.Sc. Honors (Physics) from Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur. During his graduation, he received the Director, Gold Medal. Later, he went for a Master's degree in Physics from Indian Institute of Technology,Kanpur. In 1978,he received another Master's degree in Economics from the Ohio State University, United States. After a few years, Dr. Subbarao joined the Humphrey Fellowship program at Massachusetts Institute of Technology to study Quantitative Economic Modelling and became a Humphrey Fellow at MIT in 1982. He later received a Ph.D. in Economics from Andhra University.



In 1972, Dr. Subbarao topped the Civil Services Examination and was assigned the Andhra Pradesh cadre. He was appointed as the joint secretary of Department of Economics Affairs in the Ministry of Finance in Government of India. He served in this position from 1988 to 1993. Later, he was made the Finance Secretary of Government of Andhra Pradesh and served in this position till 1998. From 1994 to 2004, he served as the lead economist at the World Bank.

Dr. Subbarao has vast experience on issues in public finance and has held important posts in this area. He has worked as Secretary to the Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Council. He took charge as the 22nd Governor of Reserve Bank of India in September 2008 and served under the then Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh. During his tenure as Governor of RBI, Dr. Subbarao took initiatives for the demystification of the Central Bank, including lucid presentation of terse macro-economic concepts in the RBI publications and grassroots level interaction with the masses through various financial inclusion, financial literacy and village outreach programmes. Dr. Subbarao is generally credited as having safely stewarded Indian economy through the financial crisis. However, it was during Subbarao's tenure that the value of Indian Rupee tumbled spectacularly, with USD/INR exchange rate for the first time breaching the psychological barrier of 60 and even hitting a new low of 69.

Dr. Subbarao is known to have a mind of his own and frequently vetoes / overrides the opinion of his fellow members of the Technical Advisory Group on Monetary Policy. He is criticized as lacking democratic spirit by regularly going against the majority opinion of fellow experts in the apex level committee. During Subbarao's last days at the helm of RBI, the banking industry in India was rocked by the infamous Cobra Post expose of money laundering by leading Indian banks through violation of RBI's KYC guidelines, which pointed to the slackness and loopholes in the supervisory role of RBI.Mr. Vyas had wide-ranging interests as a student at IIT Kanpur, from history to art, but he was especially known for his interest in and knowledge of wildlife, in particular, ornithology. A keen bird watcher, he had invited Padma Bhushan Shri Salim Ali, perhaps India most outstanding researcher, author and conservationist in this field to speak at IIT Kanpur. In the course of his diplomatic career spanning 32 years now, Sudhir has spent almost a third dealing with India neighbours where India foreign policy faces some of its severest challenges, either from those capitals or handling their affairs from the foreign ministry in Delhi. He has served in Kathmandu, Nepal, in those tumultuous days leading to the introduction of democracy in that country; in Pakistan, at a particularly difficult period in our bilateral relations that witnessed some of the most tricky diplomatic situations in that country, such as General Musharraf military coup, the IC 814 airplane hijacking and its violent aftermath, the Agra Summit and the risky situation during operation Parakram following the terrorist attack on our Parliament in 2001.



Mr. Vyas was Ambassador in Thimphu, Bhutan, with which India enjoys a specially close relationship, during a particularly historic period in that country that witnessed its transition to constitutional democracy and the coronation of its present King. Another area of Sudhir specialisation has been the Arab world, where he served as India ambassador to the UAE and earlier in Egypt and Algeria. He studied Arabic to meet the requirements of this specialisation. He has also considerable experience of multilateral diplomacy at the UN in New York, when he served as a member of India delegation to the UN security council when India was a member of that body in 1991-92, just when the former soviet union collapsed and the balance of power in the world began to change with the first Gulf war.

Mr. Vyas is now Indian ambassador to Germany, Europe economic powerhouse and a leading innovator of technologies for the future; today, in areas such as climate change and green energy issues, this diplomatic engagement and dialogue takes on a special relevance. And all through his diplomatic career that has taken him to so many different parts of the world, Sudhir has kept up his keen interest in birds, ornithology and wildlife in particular, and conservation issues in general. He is conferred with the distinguished alumnus award of the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur for his outstanding achievements in managing the diplomatic relations of India with several countries.Mr. Prabhat Singh completed his bachelor's degree in Civil Engineering from IIT Kanpur in 1980. Since then, he has worked in the Hydrocarbon Industry both in MNC (British Gas) and Maharatna PSUs (GAIL, NTPC, EIL), etc. successfully executing diverse roles including Project Planning, Execution & Management, Exploration & Production, Training & Organizational Reforms and Business Development & Marketing.

He has served as a Chairman of Ratnagiri Gas and Power Private Limited (RGPPL) erstwhile Dabhol Power Company. During his tenure, he commissioned the 5 MMTPA LNG regasification terminal at Dabhol. At British Gas (India), he headed the Upstream Business Development and Strategy Divisions. He has also served as the Director of Marketing at GAIL and Chairman of GAIL Global Singapore Pte Ltd. (GGSPL), a global trading arm of GAIL at Singapore currently engaged in creating value & managing India's pioneering efforts towards global LNG business. At GAIL, he led a highly human-oriented change management initiative titled 'Project Parivartan' that put people at the heart of corporate purpose to address the changing business environment.



Mr. Singh has been instrumental in putting the country on the world gas map, India being one of the first countries to have sourced LNG (based on Henry Hub) from the US. One of his major contributions has been the execution of the world's longest exclusive LPG pipeline from Jamnagar to Loni. The project was recognized by the Asian Development Bank as the 'Best Managed Project' of the year. He has also been instrumental in ushering in the 'Open Access Common Carrier Principle' in India. He is one of the core contributors to the concept of gas pooling for the power & fertilizer sector which is under successful implementation. He has also been a member of the National Auto Fuel Policy of MoPNG & member of the Governing body of Rajeev Gandhi Institute of Petroleum and Technology, Rai Bareilly.

Considered a visionary in the hydrocarbon industry, he was appointed as the CEO and MD of Petronet LNG in July 2015.Mr. Samir Cairae received his bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from IIT Kanpur in 1988. From 1989 to 1992, he studied at the HEC School of Management, Paris for a Master's in Business Administration. Since 1992, he has worked with several leading corporations and held global corporate roles in Asia and Europe.

Mr. Cairae started his career as a Business Head at Schlumberger India where he played a key role in building the business from scratch and running independent P&L operations in smart card division. After working there for four years, he moved to Accor Asia Pacific in 1996 as the Business Development Head primarily responsible for acquisitions, restructuring, negotiations and designing strategies. In March 1999, his association with the giant cement maker Lafarge began which lasted till January 2016. From 1999 to 2003, he served as the Vice President of Operations, Strategy & Development for several cement plants associated with Lafarge in Eastern India. For the next three years, he worked as the BU President of Lafarge China where he directly managed 3 companies in 2 different product lines. In January 2007, he was appointed as the CEO and Chairman of Lafarge Cement Philippines where he continued till 2010. His last stint with the group was at LafargeHolcim where he headed the SVP Industrial Performance Group responsible for managing the industrial strategy and performance of all the plants worldwide and the industrial competency centers comprising 330 experts and professionals.

While juggling to perform different roles and responsibilities, Mr. Cairae took another challenge and completed his Executive Development course from Stanford Graduate School of Business in 2010 and further went on to pursue Executive Education from Harvard Business School in 2013.

In January 2016, Mr. Samir Cairae, owing to his rich expertise in managing global firms and delivering sustainable growth, was appointed as the Chief Executive Officer of Diversified Metals (India), Vedanta Limited. As he continues to provide operational and strategic leadership for the performance of Vedanta Limited's Aluminum, India Copper, Power, Iron Ore divisions along with Commercial and Asset optimization functions, the company is expected to sail through the tough 2016 in the market commodities.Mr. Pramanik completed his B.Tech. from IIT Kanpur, and later attended the Stanford University's Advanced Marketing Management Program. Since then, he has been actively involved with the Indian IT industry. He has worked in several senior management positions in companies like Digital Equipment India Ltd., Blue Star Ltd., and NELCO. While serving as the Vice-President, Sales & Marketing, at Digital Equipment India Ltd., he was part of the original Country Management Team responsible for setting up the joint venture in India. He later became the Director of Enterprise Sales (Asia-Pacific) in Singapore.

He led Sun Microsystems for 13 years as the MD, where he also served as the Global VP, Commercial Systems, at the U.S. HQ. From 1997 to 2008, he was the President of Sun's India operations. On 1st April 2010, he became the Managing Director of Oracle India only to leave it in less than a year, on 28 March 2011, to join as the Chairman of Microsoft India. In his current role, he reports directly to Jean-Philippe Courtois who is currently the President of Microsoft International. Mr. Pramanik is also a member of various committees in CII, MAIT, NASSCOM.



With over 35 years of IT industry experience, Mr. Pramanik is a regular speaker on computer & telecom related subjects at public forums and industry meetings. He is known for his outstanding managerial skills. He leads by setting his own example and has earned the respect of his colleagues as well as his competitors. In addition to his analytical incisiveness, his success in managing companies is known to be steeped in his social awareness, human understanding, and human relationships. Besides work, he has a keen interest in photography and reading.Deepak Bhagat received his B.Tech. degree in Electrical Engineering in 1973 from IIT Kanpur and further went on to complete his Masters in Science with specialization in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland in 1977.

In 1979, he started his career with Hewlett-Packard as an R&D Engineering Manager and went on to stay with the company for 14 years. He was a key contributor to HP's transition to a precision architecture based commercial system (HP 3000 900 series) in various engineering and technical marketing management capacities. Additionally, he contributed to HP's personal computer product strategy and led the company's joint development programs with Microsoft and Novell. In 1993, he joined Sun Microsystems as a Senior Director of Engineering and made key contributions to strategy, technology roadmaps, system software, architecture, acquisitions, technology evaluation, and partnerships for several programs such as Solaris/Ultrasparc Systems, Sun N1 Grid Management Engine, and others. He is also the co-founder of Sun India Engineering Center in Bangalore and played a key role in initiating Sun's collaborative research with IITs in India. He was also a member of President Clinton's entourage that came to India in March 2000. From 2007 to 2012, he acted as the Founding Principal of Vikroon Systems Inc. and provided high-end consulting to several high profile clients including Cisco, Huawei, and BMC in the areas of Data Center Infrastructure and Management products. Mr. Bhagat is currently a Vice President at SAP in the Cloud Architecture and Engineering Group.



Mr. Bhagat has also been involved with several Start-ups working in the areas of data center infrastructure and automation, cloud services, and mobile. For instance, he led the development of a data center automation and service provisioning platform as the CEO and VP of Engineering at a very early stage startup Centrata Inc. Besides working with the Start-ups, he is also a core member of the TiE Angels group, one of the largest and most active Angels group in Silicon Valley.