Equipe de Robotique Autonome (ERA IITK)

ERA stands for Equipe de Robotique Autonome, which
is French for "a team for autonomous robotics". ERA IITK is a team of enthusiastic students at IIT Kanpur.
The primary aim of the team is to participate in
prestigious international competitions on autonomous
robotics. In the process of developing robots for these
competitions, the team strives to find new and
innovative solutions to existing problems in robotics
and to publish papers and give talks on those solutions
at conferences hosted by prestigious institutes

What do we do?
Robot Operating System(ROS)
Localization & Robot Motion Control
Computing Devices & Microcontrollers
Power management systems
Multi Sensor Fusion and Object Detection
Machine Learning

Our team is focused on competing in the prestigious
RoboCup challenge, one of the world's top-ranking
robotics and artificial intelligence competitions.
We focus on developing 5 fully autonomous soccer-playing robots playing in the RoboCup Middle Size League (MSL). Our research emphasizes mechatronics design, control systems, and multi-agent cooperation at plan and perception levels.

RoboCup
Middle Size League (MSL)
RoboCup Middle Size League (MSL) is a competition where teams of five
fully autonomous robots play soccer with a regular-size FIFA soccer ball.
The robots have a maximum size and weight, and all sensors must be on-
board.

The challenges include high-velocity control, self-localization, navigation,
perception in resource-limited systems, and multi-robot coordination
under real-time constraints in a highly dynamic and adversarial
environment.
The mission of RoboCup is to create a autonomous team of robots
capable of winning against a team of humans in the Soccer World Cup
championsby2050.

Our Progress
We have designed a kicking mechanism which uses a
solenoid based actuator.
We have developed a unity simulation for testing our
ball detection and kicking strategies.
We have successfully implanted the kicking
mechanism on our Robo Cup Bot(PHASR),which is
fully manufactured using Indian parts and inside IITK
We are also experimenting with different localization
techniques and multi-camera set up for ball tracking.

Autonomous Robocup MSL Robot
Executed Odometry for the autonomous omni-
wheeled soccer playing robot, employing Encoders
for precise and accurate position tracking
Implemented a Solenoid-based ball-kicking
mechanism and ball-dribbling mechanism using
N20motors
Incorporated a multi-camera distributed omni-
vision setup to facilitate the localization and
tracking of robots, the ball and goal posts

Vision
Made a dataset for detecting balls in frames,
wehaveusedyolov7forthis.
Obtained Synchronization of sensors and
cameras across different CPUs in real-time.
Created a robust system to obtain the ground
truth of any airborne/ ground ball using
stereovision and triangulation.
We have mapped the real-world coordinates
with every pixel on arucams using regressors
to obtain coordinates of a ground point in O(1)
time.

Future Prospects
We are striving to become regulars at the MSL with
a vision to mould our team as an umbrella of small
groups that participate in the other RoboCup
competitions as well

Funded Projects
DEXTER 1.0 
DEXTER 2.0
EXCAVATOR
BIRAC WHEELCHAIR
RoboCup MSL

Our Present Achievements
Team ERA proudly announces the publication of our latest research paper in
the prestigious IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers) journal.
In this recent paper, we delve into our approach to the DJI Robomaster AI
Challenge,2022, where Team ERA-IITK achieved a remarkable 3rd place
worldwide out of 83 competing teams.
Our primary focus lies in system hardware design and algorithmic components
aimed at achieving full autonomy for our robot.
Following this, we provide a comprehensive overview of our algorithmic
pipeline, which includes a detailed description of our state machine-based
approach towards achieving autonomy.

Our Past
Achievements
Secured overall 3rd
position among 40+
international teams in DJI
Robo Master AI Challenge 2022
Secured overall 3rd
Position in DJI Robo Master
Challenge 2019
Technical proposal got
recognized in top 5 &
technical poster accepted in
ICRA Conference 2022
Outstanding in perception
and navigation in
DJI Robo Master Challenge 2020

Team Heads
Emaad Ahmed 
Dhruva Sachan 
Kartik Kulkarni 
Rishi Agarwal
era@iitk.ac.in
eraiitk@gmail.com
