GAMEDEV

Mission We aim to popularize game development through workshops, collaboration, and production. Our workshops and lectures introduce students to all facets of video game production. Our socials serve as a platform for collaboration and communication for a variety of people with different skills and goals. Finally, we create small and fun games for us to hone our skills and for others to play. Whatever your skills may be, we will have a place for you. 

Vision The goal of the Game Development Society is to bring together students who are interested in the many different aspects of making modern video games. Our primary objective is to broaden people's understanding of the field of game development and to provide resources that will aid in their learning in this area.

1. We have successfully mentored and completed 10+ summer projects in the last three
summers with over 250 mentees.
2. The society has organized numerous online and offline workshops for the campus
community covering aspects ranging from general game development to lighting and
sound design in games.
3. We have represented our college in national and international game jams including the
India Game Developer Conference (IGDC).
4. Since we first began, our social media following has steadily grown as a result of our
weekly interactions and posts.
5. We have completed and published numerous games on our Itch as well as on the
Google Play Store.
6. We successfully conducted a nationwide game jam, Respawn collaborating with IIT
Kharagpur and IIT Guwahati.

Projects offered:

2021
1. Introduction to Game Development
2. Introduction to 3D Modelling
3. Introduction to Game Design
4. Advanced Game Development

2022
1. Introduction to Game Development
2. Introduction to Animations and 2D Art
3. Introduction to Graphics and Shaders
4. Introduction to 3D Art
5. Game Design - UI/UX and Sound Design in Games
6. Advanced Game Development

2023:
1. Introduction to Unreal Engine
2. AR/VR in GameDev
3. Using AI in games
4. Intro to Game Art
5. 3D renderer
6. Game design

Workshops organized till now

2020-21 Tenure
1. Lighting Workshop: Taught about the basics of rendering shaders and types of
lighting.
2. Unity Workshop: Basics of unity and gameplay programming.

2021-22 Tenure
1. Introduction to game programming: Covered major programming concepts and
how they are applied to making games. Attended by an audience of 70+ students.
2. Introduction to Git/Github: Taught how to use version control and repository
management to maintain versions of games and collaborate in teams. Attended by an
audience of 50+ students.
3. Introduction to Pixel Art: Covered Pixel Art techniques and principles and how to
create your own using Photoshop. Attended by an audience of 60+ students.
4. Introduction to 3D Art: Covered 3D art-making techniques like modeling, texturing,
and animation using Blender software. Attended by an audience of 100+ students.
5. Procedural Generation and Shaders: An introduction to graphics programming by
using procedurally generated texture to simulate visual effects. Attended by an
audience of about 40+ students
6. Introduction to Level Design: Covered level design concepts and principles behind
the effective and playable game design. Attended by an audience of about 30+.
7. Introduction to Lighting: This was the first offline event. We covered major lighting
and shading techniques and how to implement them in games. Attended by an
audience of about 100+ students.
8. Introduction to Game Dev for Freshers: Introductory workshop for Y21 batch
covering major GameDev specializations and their roles and how to get started in
each of them. Attended by an audience of about 100+ students.
9. Unity Workshop for Freshers: A two-day workshop to build a game from scratch.
Covered programming concepts like OOPs and gameplay programming. Attended by
an audience of about 120+ students on the first day and 60+ students on the second
day.

2022-23 Tenure:
1. Introduction to Unity: Introduced freshers to the Unity game engine and
demonstrated how to make simple games in unity. Attended by an audience of 200+
students.
2. Introduction to 3D and Blender: Covered the use of the Blender art-making
software for modeling, texturing, and animation. A crowd of more than 100 students
was present.
3. Introduction to Git/Github: Taught how to communicate in teams and maintain
game versions using version control and repository management. 50+ students were
present in the audience.
4. Sound Design Workshop: The Game Development Society presented the inaugural
"Sound Design Workshop" of our institution. We instructed students on how to create
unique VFX sounds and background scores on a DAW from the ground up covering
both sampling and synthetic approaches for the same. Attended by an audience of 50+
students.

Team Structure
4 coordinators, 25 secretaries, contributors, and senior members.
Coordinators would be making important decisions for the club. They would have
administrative rights for the clubs. The secretaries would come just below the coordinators in
the hierarchy; they can propose initiatives to the coordinators and can act accordingly. Their
ideas should be taken into account by the coordinators in any matter.
Contributors would be at the same level in the hierarchy as secretaries, contributors can be
ratified as secretaries if they show enthusiasm and dedication towards the club throughout
their tenure. Past secretaries or contributors would be entitled as senior members of the club.
Senior members can suggest and assist coordinators in the management of the club. Also Past
Coordinators would also suggest their opinions on club-related matters.
Secretaries would be given a training doc for those who don't have completed their primary
evaluations. They would specialize in one or more than one field and would submit their
specialization evaluations.


Game Jams for the campus community
Registered for “Build your own game” (BYOG) Jam 2021, which took place on the 22nd
of Oct. Participated in a team of 9 members making a game in 48 hours. We will participate
in this year’s BYOG as well, with our secys participating in it on August 26.
Registered for the India Game Developers Conference (IGDC) 2021, which took place
virtually from the 16th of November for 3 days. This acted as a starting point for our
networking goals in the Gamedev industry in India. We plan to participate in this year’s
IGDC in person from November 3 to 5, 2022, in Hyderabad.
Received an invitation to join the Game Developers World Championship (GDWC) based
on the performance of our game, “Territorial Attack,” released on the Google PlayStore.
Organized “Summer Game Jam 2021”, a 7 Day Game Jam with final submission by 4
teams.
Created 4 Development Teams from the Secys and started internal Game Jams with a 72
hours time limit.

Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/gamedev_iitk/
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/gamedev.iitk
Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/company/game-development-club-iitk/
Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCMa7EugzVF_YF5DACUKRTJw
Github: https://github.com/studiocentauri

