Student's Gymkhana Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur

About Us

The Students' Gymkhana is the students' government organization of IIT Kanpur. Established in 1962, the Gymkhana seeks to cultivate leadership qualities amongst students to foster a corporate life and advance the general cause of the institute's student body.

The Students' Gymkhana functions mainly through the Students' Senate, an elected representative body, and the elected executives: the President, the General Secretary(UG/PG) Academics and Career, the General Secretary Games and Sports, the General Secretary Media and Cultural, and the General Secretary Science and Technology. The Senate lays down the general guidelines for the functions of the executives and their associated councils. The Senators elect their own Senate Chairperson.

The Gymkhana has a say in the policy and decision making bodies of the institute. The President and the Chairperson Students' Senate are special invitees to the Institute Academic Senate. The President is usually invited to all the institute level executive committees pertaining to students' matters. Nominees of the Students' Gymkhana are also members of the various standing committees of the institute. All academic departments have Departmental Undergraduate and Post Graduate Committees consisting of faculty members and nominees of the Students' Gymkhana.

Councils

The four Councils along with cells carry out the executive responsibilities of the Students’ Gymkhana. Each council executes affairs pertaining to an overarching purpose. The Councils comprise Clubs, Hobby Groups, and Institute Teams, which cater to specific activities.

Academics and Career Council

AnC Council has been trusted with the responsibility of managing executive activities in two of the most crucial aspects of student life Academics and Career.

Games and Sports Council

GnS Council is the voice and face of IIT Kanpur sports community, responsible for management and conduction of all sporting events in the campus

Media and Cultural Council

MnC Council organizes a plethora of cultural activities spanning over the whole year.

Science and Technology Council

The SnT Council of IIT Kanpur is a community of science and technology enthusiasts who love to explore the unthinkable.

Cells

Community Welfare Cell
Election Commission
Entrepreneurship Cell
Outreach Cell
Public Policy and Opinion Cell
Vox Populi
Preamble
“For the purpose of
Fostering a corporate life based on equality of status and sound moral judgement;
Developing all round extra-curricular activities to supplement education; and
Advancing the general welfare of our fellow students;
We, the students of Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur resolve to constitute a self governing democratic organization called Students’ Gymkhana and do hereby adopt this Constitution”
Fests
Antaragni
Cultural Festival
Techkriti
Technical Entrepreneurial Festival
Udghosh
Sports Festival



President's Office

Added to Students’ Gymkhana in 2016-17, the President’s Office primarily assists the President in discharging his/her duties. The council consists of President’s nominee to various institute level committees, Heads of multiple assets like the Students’ Activity Center, Students’ Server, Council finances, Managers of miscellaneous events like Nostalgia, Melange and various committees which are formed throughout the year to assist the President, Students’ Gymkhana

Councils

The four Councils along with cells carry out the executive responsibilities of the Students’ Gymkhana. Each council executes affairs pertaining to an overarching purpose. The Councils comprise Clubs, Hobby Groups, and Institute Teams, which cater to specific activities.

Academics and Career Council

AnC Council has been trusted with the responsibility of managing executive activities in two of the most crucial aspects of student life Academics and Career.

Games and Sports Council

GnS Council is the voice and face of IIT Kanpur sports community, responsible for management and conduction of all sporting events in the campus

Media and Cultural Council

MnC Council organizes a plethora of cultural activities spanning over the whole year.

Science and Technology Council

The SnT Council of IIT Kanpur is a community of science and technology enthusiasts who love to explore the unthinkable.

General Championship

IIT Kanpur has a rich hostel culture where students residing in different halls compete against each other to win the General Championship.

Galaxy

The most awaited event of the year, Galaxy brings out the hall rivalries as students battle it out in various cultural activities such as dance, music, fine arts, literature, etc. It instills the real sense of competition into the participants and sets everyone’s spirits high.

Takneek

It is organized annually where students no matter UG or PG compete for the glory of their hall in robotics, electronics, astronomy, coding etc. It is a platform to sharpen the technical skills of the students

Inferno

It is a power-packed event that brings out the best in all the sports enthusiasts in the campus. The entire campus turns out to cheer their respective teams. The event also serves as a talent hunt for the institute teams.


Cells

Community Welfare Cell

The Community Welfare Cell is a body under the Students’ Gymkhana, Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur. The realm of for the Cell includes students, faculty, staff members of the campus, the workers and their families, and any and all individuals who are related to the campus. It is to this community that the Cell finds itself morally accountable. In a larger setup and a farther vision, the Cell shall try to realize the responsibilities of the institute with respect to the city of Kanpur.

Election Commission

The Students' Gymkhana, IIT Kanpur works through a system of democracy upheld through Gymkhana elections. Election Commission ensure a fair and smooth, end to end conduction of the Mid-Term Elections, the General Elections, HEC Elections etc.

Entrepreneurship Cell

E-Cell, IIT Kanpur aims to induce an entrepreneurial mindset into the students and air an innovative streak in them. We are here to water the in the bud and help them bloom into impactful endeavors through networking student enterprises from campus to incubators, seeding funds and angel investors to transform the newly proposed ideas into successful start-ups.

Outreach Cell

Outreach Cell is the Students' Gymkhana body that works in collaboration with the Dean of Resources and Alumni, IIT Kanpur. We contribute to the crucial avenues of strengthening student-alumni relations, publicizing achievements of IIT Kanpur and organizing outreach programs in IIT Kanpur. We organize talks and networking programs for career guidance and mentorship for developing student-alumni relations. We also conceptualize and execute various campaigns such as for prospective students.

Public Policy and Opinion Cell

Public Policy and Opinion Cell at IIT Kanpur brings global events into valuable perspective. We aim to provide our members with first-class exposure to world leaders, policymakers, historians and the frontier of Economics for years. We are the only student-run public-policy cell among the 23 IITs nationwide. We aim to engage students in discussions on issues of social, economic, political and historical significance and expose them to the challenges of policy making, encouraging them to pursue careers in the field of public policy and governance.

Vox Populi

Vox is the student media body of IIT Kanpur. We aim to be the voice of campus community, and act as a bridge between faculty, students, alumni and other stakeholders of IIT Kanpur.


Fests

The festivals shall primarily be organized for the students of the Institute, to provide opportunities for participation in extracurricular activities at the intercollegiate level, to provide interaction with students from outside the Institute and to inculcate independent organizational skill, and shall secondarily be organized for the faculty, staff and residents of the Institute.

The basic motto of all festivals shall be to encourage the spirit of competition and the spirit of participation amongst the students’ community of the Institute. The Gymkhana shall annually organize three inter-collegiate Gymkhana festivals namely Cultural Festival

Antaragni is the annual cultural festival of IIT Kanpur and one of the largest and most awaited across Asia. It literally translates into Fire Within’, which every person associated is sure to feel within themselves. With 55 rich years behind it, Antaragni embodies the passion and desire of the students of IIT Kanpur and the whole of India to showcase and celebrate amazing cultural talent. It has been the benchmark of the college cultural scene of India, being the launchpad for some very successful names. Apart from competitive events and illuminating talks it hosts some amazing performances by artists of international standing which mesmerise the 130,000-strong footfall. Each year it grows in scope to reflect the changing cultural landscape of society, but the only constant is that it remains the four best days of the year for everyone who is part of it.

Techkriti Technical Entrepreneurial Festival

Techkriti is the annual inter-collegiate Technical and Entrepreneurship festival organised by the students of IIT Kanpur. Techkriti was launched in 1995 with the aim of developing interest and encouraging innovation in technology among students of India. Techkriti hosts a plethora of Competitions, Exhibitions, Lectures and Shows. In its twenty second edition, Techkriti has evolved and grown, fulfilling its purpose and becoming one of the most eagerly-awaited college technical festivals in Asia. Now, schools are also a part of this extravaganza with the introduction of a new event called Open School Championship)

Udghosh Sports Festival

Udghosh is the annual sports festival of IIT Kanpur, held each year in October. Over the years Udghosh has evolved and expanded to become the biggest inter-collegiate sports extravaganza in India. Being one of the most eagerly awaited events of the year, it is a national platform where the youth of the nation get together, interact and indulge in a fair play. Udghosh witnesses participation from students from over 200 colleges from all over India. Students from all fields i.e., humanities, engineering, science, commerce, law and medicine participate in the event with great gusto. A footfall of over 30,000 is witnessed during the festival.


Students’ Senate
Visit Students' Senate Website

The Students’ Senate is an elected student representative body composed of Senators representatives) elected from each batch and the five Gymkhana executives. It keeps a check on the functioning of the executive wings and functions as the central policy making body.

The Senate lays down the guidelines for the functions of the executives, their associated councils, the Gymkhana Festivals and other matters pertaining to the Student body at large. The Students' Senate has a say in the policy and decision making bodies of the institute. The Senate acts on many important issues pertaining to students at IIT Kanpur, some of which are:

Institute Education Policy
Hostels
Gymkhana Festivals
Security and Health
And anything that relates to student life

On all issues, Students’ Senate serves as the forum of expression for the students and the decisions of the Senate represent the voice of the students at all forums.

Prashant Mishra
Chairperson Students' Senate


President Office:
Students’ Gymkhana, IIT Kanpur

Office with the aim of making more students aware and involving them in the working of Institute.

“Empowering Leadership,
Enriching Experiences”

About

The President’s Office, established within the Students’ Gymkhana in 2016-17, serves as the cornerstone for student leadership and engagement at our institution. Tasked with a broad spectrum of responsibilities, this office is dedicated to facilitating the President’s duties, orchestrating diverse events, and ensuring active participation in various committee meetings. It stands at the helm of managing pivotal assets such as the Students’ Activity Center and Students’ Server, alongside overseeing the Gymkhana’s financial matters. Moreover, the office plays a crucial role in the planning and execution of signature events like Gymkhana Day and Riwayat/Melange, enriching the campus culture. Through the formation of dynamic committees throughout the academic year, the President’s Office strives to foster a vibrant student community, empower student voices, and enhance the overall student experience at our institution.

Empowering Leadership, Enriching Experiences


Riwayat
Home
Events
Our Team
Leader Board
R I W A Y A T



Presented by
Students' Gymkhana, IIT Kanpur



Leader Board
About Riwayat

Riwayat is an inter-pool competition being organized this summer exclusively for all Y20s, be it UG or PG. The tournament will be contested by 6 competing pools consisting of UGs of Halls 2, 3, 5, 6, 12 and PG-Y20. There will be a total of 8 events organized and conducted by 4 cells. The pool with the maximum overall points at the end of Riwayat will be declared the champions!

POINTS PER POSITION IN EACH EVENT

1st  position 100% points
2nd position 70% points
3rd position 45% points
4th position points
5th position 20% points
6th position 10% points

POINTS DISTRIBUTION

Policymakers News/Satire Writing Design Data Analysis 10%
Comics 5%
Speak in your language 10%
Case Study Challenge 15%
Designathon 25%

EVENTS' DETAILS

Competitions are being conducted over a span of 3 months, June to August.

Vox Populi
 queries related to Vox Populi, contact the chief editors of Vox Populi,
Ankur Banga and Aditya Raghav Trivedi news Satire writing

An exciting competition to test your creativity to deploy wit, irony, sarcasm, and ridicule in criticizing faults. Participants need to construct a composed piece of around 500-600 words individually or in a group of 2-4 people.

Details
02
Survey design and data analysis

Participants would have to complete exploratory and analytical tasks based on the data. You will be provided with two documents:
1. The pdf of the survey questionnaire
2. Raw data of the responses received.

Details
03
Comics

This one is for all the comic lovers out there. Use your artistry to create a comic on the following topics:
Types of people in an online class
Rest of the comic ideas can be taken from satire/fake news part only.

Details
OUR TEAM

Operations Management

Ghulam Farooqui

Chief Secretary, President's office

 Goyal

Convener, Cells' Affairs Committee

 President's office

 Suryansh Yadav, Vedant Gitte, Jahnvi Rochwani and Aditya Subramanian
Riwayat

Riwayat is an inter-pool competition being organized this summer exclusively for all Y20s, be it UG or PG. The tournament will be contested by 6 competing pools consisting of UGs of Halls 2, 3, 5, 6, 12 and PG-Y20. There will be a total of 8 events organized and conducted by 4 cells. The pool with the maximum overall points at the end of Riwayat will be declared the champions!

USEFUL WEBSITES
 Students' Gymkhana
 IITK Home
 Vox Populi
 E-Cell
 CWC
 PPOC
CONTACT US

Vedaant Sikka
President, Students' Gymkhana
IIT Kanpur
Email: presidentsg@iitk.ac.in


 2021 Students' Gymkhana, IITK. All Rights Reserved 