IITK MOTORSPORTS (IITKMS)

About Us
SAE IIT Kanpur is a student run organization at one of the premier technical institutes of the country, Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur
With a diverse team of motivated students from various departments, we participate in prestigious competitions, honing our technical skills and gaining real-world engineering experience.
Join us to enrich your college journey and thrive in your career.

Competitions we took part in
Formula SAE
Formula SAE is an international student design competition sponsored by the SAE where students develop a Formula-style race car for a fictional manufacturing company.

FORMULA BHARAT VIRTUALS ‘21
3rd Position in Business Plan Presentation
10th Position in Engineering Design Presentation
8th Position Overall
FORMULA BHARAT 2023
1st Position Overall
1st Position in Business Plan Presentation
4th Position in Concept Management

Formula SAE Electric
Formula Student Electric is an initiative by Formula SAE that educates students about electric drive concepts, fostering their contribution to the growing demand for EV technology
FORMULA BHARAT VIRTUALS ‘21
3rd Position in Business Plan Presentation
10th Position in Engineering Design Presentation
8th Position Overall
FORMULA BHARAT 2023
1st Position Overall
1st Position in Business Plan Presentation
4th Position in Concept Management

BAJA SAE
BAJA SAE is a design competition held under the banner ofSAE International.
B15 – BAJA Student India 2015
The team was awarded 'Best Incoming Team award'
4th in Design
6th in Acceleration
B16 – BAJA Student India 2016
Awarded ‘Best Tech-Ready Team’
13th Overall Position
4th in Acceleration
4th in Maneuverability
6th in Design Event
B19 – Mega ATV Championship 2019
13th Overall Position
12th in Endurance
Efficycle
Efficycle is an intercollegiate design competition for undergraduate and graduate students where teams have to design and fabricate an energy efficient entirely human powered three-wheeled vehicle. The vehicle would be capable to be driven simultaneously as well as alternatively by two drivers and must be aerodynamic, highly engineered and ergonomically designed.
SAENIS EFFI-CYCLE 2015
SECURED 9TH POSITION OVERALL OUT OF 87 TEAMS

Fresher Showcase Y21
The team introduced their vehicle, BAJA-19, to the incoming fresher batch. With over 250 students attending the session, they discussed not only the technical specifications of the car, but also delved into the team's values and culture. They also discussed why the freshers should consider becoming a part of our team and provided insights into the recruitment process for joining.

Interaction with Sadhguru
The team got an opportunity to interact and showcase their vehicle in front of Sadhguru, the mystic speaker and author on international forums, who also happens to be an automobile enthusiast. They showcased their latest ATV “BAJA’20”. He provided them with a lot of valuable insights, merging social ideas with their engineering mettle.

International Relations Engagement
The team interacted with a delegation from premium US universities led by Prof. Nikhil Gupta from NYU Tandon School of Engineering, hosted by IIT Kanpur and shared their experience as motorsports enthusiasts. This was a collaborative event of the team with the Academics and Career Council and the Science and Technology Council, IIT Kanpur.

SnT Pavilion '22
The SnT Pavilion is an annual tech showcase event for the incoming batch at IIT Kanpur. It attracted over 1000 students, who interacted with the team about what it does, and the enthusiasm behind motorsports in general. The BAJA-19 showcase generated an overwhelming response from the freshers junta.

Team '22 Introductory session
The Introductory Session ‘22 was an event which provided the fresher batch with a detailed insight into the workings of the team, its individual subsystems and the basic technical knowledge associated with them. The event saw an overwhelming response with more than 400 students attending the session, and over 150 students appearing for the recruitment test.

Samvardhan '23
Samvardhan ‘23 was the Career Festival of IIT Kanpur, organized by the Students’ Placement Office. The team got to interact with several startups and companies, expanding their network. Their vehicle was also showcased to multiple companies attending the event from different domains.

F1 Grand Prix Screening
The team in collaboration with Udghosh screened the Spanish Grand Prix ’23 sponsored by RedBull India for the campus junta. The event drew a crowd with over 300 viewers, eager to witness the intense race action. The screening not only showcased the team's dedication to motorsport but also their dedication towards building a community of like-minded individuals who share a passion for speed, technology, and engineering excellence.

SnT Pavilion '23
The SnT Pavilion introduced the incoming batch of Y23 at IIT Kanpur to the team, their previous achievements and upcoming projects. They also showcased their vehicle, BAJA-19 to over 1000 enthusiastic students, talking about the vehicle’s technical specs, the team, its functioning and the legacy.

Toka Technologies CEO Meet
The team hosted Mr. Bruce Thompson, the visionary Founder and CEO of Toka Technologies and were delighted to listen to his insights and vision for the future of automotive technology. They had the privilege of showcasing their All-Terrain Vehicle to Mr. Thompson.

The Current Season
Manufactured IIT Kanpur’s 1st Formula Student Electric Vehicle
Participated in Formula Bharat 2024 (offline)
Raised INR 45+ lakhs through sponsorship in a single season

TECHNICAL TEAM
CHASSIS AND AERODYNAMICS
ELECTRONICS
STEERING AND SUSPENSION
BRAKES AND WHEEL ASSEMBLY
POWERTRAIN
BMS AND COOLING
SOFTWARE

NON-TECHNICAL TEAM
CREATIVES
FINANCE & MARKETING
WEB DEVELOPEMENT

Our Alumni
Nikhil Kurele and Harshit Rathore
Founders of NOCCA Robotics
Forbes 30 under 30 Asia

Sansit Patnaik
President's Gold Medalist

Aditya Pratap Singh Rajawat
Founder of SVAN ROBOTICS

