Department: Aerospace Engineering
Abhijit Kushari PhD Institute of Research Rocket and Gas Turbine Instrumentation in Combustion and Fluid Liquid Atomization and Liquid Active Flow Combustion Experimental Fluid High Speed Flows
Abhishek PhD of Research Rotary Wing Hover Capable Unmanned Air Vehicles System Multibody Inverse Flight Dynamics Simulation for Helicopter Design
Ajay Vikram Singh PhD of Maryland College Research Combustion and Reacting Combustion Generated Functional Soot Formation and Boundary Layer Gas Turbine Fire Flame Material Renewable Energy Conversion.
Alakesh Chandra Mandal PhD Research Experimental Flow instability and Turbulent shear flows.
Arnab Samanta PhD of Illinois at Research Fluid hydrodynamic wave flow control.
Arun Kumar Perumal PhD Research Experimental High speed Subsonic and supersonic Jets in cross Impinging Drag reduction on automotive vehicles.
Ashish Tewari PhD Research Flight Unsteady Space Dynamics
Ashoke De PhD State Baton Research High Speed Turbulence Multiphase flows and Energy Harvesting
C. S. Upadhyay PhD Research Solid Adaptive Finite Element Structural Optimization
D. P. Mishra PhD Research CFD of Chemically Reacting Heat Transfer
Debopam Das PhD Research Theoretical and Experimental Fluid Instability Vortex Dynamics. Unsteady and Flight
D Chaitanya Kumar Rao PhD Research Evaporation and combustion of fuel evaporation and atomization of Pulse atomization of Femtosecond bubble dynamics
Dipak Kumar Giri PhD Research Linear and nonlinear controls for aerospace systems Satellite Attitude Dynamics and Control.
G. M. Kamath PhD of College Research Structural Health Composite Materials and Structural Condition Machine Aeroelasticity
Kamal Poddar PhD 7843 Research Low and High Speed Flows
Mangal Kothari PhD of 5623 Research Optimal Nonlinear and Adaptive Flight Vehicle Guidance and State Motion Planning and Cooperative Control
Mohammed Ibrahim Sugarno PhD Research Experimental Hypersonic High Enthalpy Test Shock Waves
Navrose PhD Research Fluid Computational Fluid Dynamics.
Pritam Chakraborty PhD Ohio State Research Mesoscale mechanics for creep and methods
P. M. Mohite PhD Research Damage Mechanics of Laminated Finite Element Analysis
Pradeep Moise PhD Institute of Research Vortex breakdown in swirling Swirl in cardiac tornadoes and wind Transonic Resolvent analysis
Raghavendra P Kukillaya PhD New Research Aircraft and Airship dynamics and Systems simulation and Optimal Biomechanics
Rajesh Kitey PhD Auburn 7853 8898 Research Solid Fracture Experimental Stress Optical Mechanics of Thin Composite Finite Element and Boundary Element Methods
Rakesh Kumar PhD 5524 Research Rarefied Gas Molecular Heat Transfer Thermal Design
Rajesh Ranjan PhD Research Turbomachinery Applied Stability Flow Transition and High Performance Computing
Sanjay Kumar PhD Cal Research Fluid Mechanics bluff body shock shock tubes
Sanjay Mittal PhD 6603 1132 Research FEM
Sathesh Mariappan PhD Research Fundamentals of thermoacoustic Application of dynamical theory to thermo fluid Optical flow Acoustic measurements
Subrahmanyam Saderla PhD Research Real time system identification of unmanned aerial UAV flight tests and parameter high angle of attack aerodynamic dynamic wind tunnel experimental flight chaotic modelling cancer cell seismic data material properties using Artificial Neural Networks.
Tanmoy Mukhopadhyay PhD Research Mechanical Advanced Deployable materials and 2D materials and mechanics to Stochastic Uncertainty quantification and reliability Surrogate Machine Artificial Additive manufacturing
Tufan K Guha PhD State Research Experimental Aerodynamics and Fluid Active and Passive Flow Control
Tanmay Dutt Mathur PhD Pennsylvania State Research Rotorcraft drive Power gearbox for geared wind and farm and reliability analysis of rotating Contact mechanics and Supercritical CO2 based and multiscale methods for structural analysis.
Vaibhav Arghode PhD  Research Heat Fluid Experimental Computational Fluid Dynamics.
Department: Biological Sciences & Bioengineering
Amitabha Bandyopadhyay PhD Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva Research Skeletal development and differentiation.
Anusmita Sahoo PhD Institute of Research Protein Vaccine Antibody glycosylation
Appu Kumar Singh PhD Research calcium fluorescence spectroscopy
Arjun Ramakrishnan Research Systems decision mental cognition
Arun K. Shukla PhD Planck Institute of 4058 Research Structural cellular combinatorial biology
Ashok Kumar PhD Research Downstream affinity interactions and cell tissue engineering
Ashwani Kumar Thakur PhD Punjab Research Protein aggregation in diseases and therapeutic self assembly of neurodegenerative disorders
Bushra Ateeq PhD Muslim Research Molecular oncology and cancer therapeutics
Debanjan Dasgupta PhD Institute of Research Circuits and Systems Behavioural Electrophysiology
Dhirendra S. Katti PhD Of Research Tissue controlled drug delivery biomaterials
Dibyendu Kumar Das Research Single molecule optical virology and immunology
Hamim Zafar with Research Computational probabilistic evolution and cancer
Jayandharan Giridhara Rao PhD Medical Research Gene Blood Cancer gene Human molecular genetics
Jonaki Sen PhD College of New Research Vertebrate neuronal development
Nitin Gupta PhD of California San Research insect olfaction and digital interventions for human mental health
Nitin Mohan PhD and Nanotechnology from Academia Research Optical applications in neurodegenerative lysosomal storage disease cancer
Nikunj Arunkumar Bhagat Ph.D. in Electrical University of 2017 Research Neural Medical Functional Electrical and Rehabilitation Engineering
Rakesh Majhi Research Ion Immune cell Tissue restoration
Robert Sonowal Research antimicrobial resistance
R. Sankararamakrishnan PhD Research Modeling and simulation of bioinformatics
S. Ganesh PhD Hindu Research Neurobiology of stress and human genetics
Sai Prasad Pydi PhD of Manitoba Research Cell Signaling
Santosh K. Misra Research personalized bubble biomedical carbon drug delivery nanocomposites.
Saravanan Matheshwaran PhD 6428 Research Chromatin dynamics and DNA microbiology
Shanu Jain Research Liver Metabolic G Cellular Genetic Small Molecule Drug Discovery
Suresh Kumar Research colorectal and breast cancer
Department: Chemical Engineering
Akash Choudhary PhD Research Complex fluids and Active Colloids Biological Dynamics Electrokinetics.
Animangsu Ghatak PhD 7406 Research Adhesion and friction on soft Fracture of soft thin approaches in design of engineering materials.
Anurag Tripathi PhD Research Modelling and simulation of complex Rheology and segregation of granular Wet granular flows.
Ashutosh Sharma PhD Research Confined Soft Colloids and Wetting and Functional Interfaces.
Dipin S. Pillai PhD Research Stability Nonlinear Hydrodynamic Thin Multiphase flows
Goutam Deo PhD Research Catalysis and reaction Supported Reaction kinetics.
Harshwardhan H. Katkar PhD of Research Soft Bacterial Fluid Multiscale Enhanced sampling.
Himanshu Sharma PhD of Texas at Research Flow through porous oil Colloids Nanotechnology.
Indranil Saha Dalal PhD of Ann Research Modeling and simulation of the dynamics of polymer chains in Mesoscale and molecular dynamics Modeling and simulation of complex fluids Flow induced effects in biomolecules.
Ishan Bajaj PhD Research Process systems and system research
Jayant K. Singh PhD Research Porous materials Carbon capture and Selective adsorption and Soil Sensor Development
K. P. Krishnaraj PhD Institute of Research structure and stress transmission in granular structure and transport in spatial networks.
Naveen Tiwari PhD of Massachusetts Research Transport Instabilities in free surface Flow through porous media.
Nishith Verma PhD of 6124 Research Synthesis of nanomaterials including adsorbents and Environmental pollution control Lattice Boltzmann modelling and simulation.
Nitin Kaistha PhD of 7432 Research Process Simulation and Plantwide control system structure Control of reactive distillation columns.
Pankaj Arvind Apte PhD State Research Statistical Interfacial Phase equilibria and nucleation.
Raghavendra Ragipani PhD from IIT Bombay and Monash Research Carbon dioxide capture and Resource recovery and solid waste Sustainable process engineering
Raghvendra Singh PhD University of New York at Research Signal Systems Biophysics.
Rahul Mangal PhD Research Polymer complex active liquid crystals.
Raj Ganesh S. Pala PhD of Research Electrochemical and reaction Sustainable energy and Photoelectrochemical CO2 Fuel Catalysis using nanostructured metal oxides.
Raju Kumar Gupta PhD University of Research Green synthesis of Surface High dielectric constant Perovskite solar Electrospinning of functional polymers and nanocomposites for environmental and energy applications.
Sanjeev Garg PhD of Research RNA Computer Aided Product and Process Flexibility Analysis of Chemical and Biological Systems.
Siddhartha Panda PhD of Research Chemical Materials processing for microelectronic and display technologies.
Soumik Das PhD of Texas at Research Wettability Molecular assembly and synthesis in structured Liquid Solitons in liquid chemical soft matter.
Sri Sivakumar PhD of Research Synthesis and characterization of Polymer Thin Drug and Photonic crystals.
Vishal Agarwal PhD of Massachusetts Research and Molecular Abintio Molecular Density Functional Reaction Rate Theory.
Viswanathan Shankar PhD Institute of 7827 Research Stability of fluid Rheology of complex fluids.
Department: Civil Engineering
Yogesh M Joshi PhD Institute of Research Polymer science and engineering and Fluid mechanics.
Abhas Singh PhD Research Environmental geochemistry of heavy metals and inorganic Investigate physical and chemical processes such as and occurring at and relate them to larger Predict inorganic contaminant fate and transport through surface complexation and reactor Develop tools to target contaminant remediation in natural as well as engineered environments.
Abhishek Chaudhary Ph.D. Research Evaluating the impact of human consumption activities on different environmental domains water land Generating quantitative information to guide transition towards sustainable systems and human Developing methods for biodiversity and ecosystem service impact Environmental life cycle assessment Product environmental footprint Characterising the sustainability status of global diets and food systems through human health and environmental indicators
Aditya Medury Research Road safety Transportation infrastructure management
Amar Nath Roy Chowdhury Research Stability of Nonlinear Finite Element Structural Form Finding and Plate and Shell Sandwich Methods
Animesh Das PhD Research Pavement Pavement Pavement evaluation and maintenance
Anubha Goel PhD of Research Characterization of emissions from vehicular Indoor and ambient air quality Size segregated distribution of particulates and organic pollutants on Health risk Environmental Fate and transport of Solid Waste Agricultural impact on climate change
Arghya Das PhD of Research Constitutive modeling of Micromechanics of granular Bifurcation instability analysis in Numerical physical modeling in geotechnical engineering
Abhijith. G. R. Ph.D. Institute of Technology Research Monitoring and controlling water quality in drinking water supply Developing water and wastewater treatment Developing advanced modelling tools for water distribution systems Improving the reliability and equity of water supply in rural and urban Leakage detection and control in water supply Fate and transport of contaminants in natural systems.
B. Nagarajan Research Satellite Altimetry and Gravimetric Earth Rotation and Polar Photogrammetric and Remote Topographical Surveying and Regional Geoidal Models
Balaji Devaraju Research Physical Future Satellite Gravity Geodetic tools for monitoring the environment
Bharat Lohani PhD University of Research 3D laser imaging and LCS Technology for motion correction and error analysis in laser Propagation modelling using high resolution LiDAR data GPS As built mapping using terrestrial laser scanning of complex structure including heritage Development of LiDAR and GIS for optimized land consolidation
Bipin Kumar Gupta Ph.D. of Research Foundation Computational Soil Dynamics
Chinmoy Kolay PhD Research Behaviour of structures under extreme load events and hybrid Structural dynamics and Nonlinear structural Numerical Renewable building material
Chirag Kothari Research Infrastructure Asset Construction Digital Twins for Civil Infrastructure Sustainable Smart Cities
Chunendra K Sahu Research Flow and mixing in porous Buoyancy and density driven Carbon groundwater geothermal energy recovery
Durgesh C. Rai PhD of Michigan Ann Research Experimental seismic behavior of Seismic evaluation and Energy dissipation Masonry and composite members
Gourabananda Pahar PhD Research Computational and experimental Lagrangian particle methods
Gaurav Tiwari Geotechnical Engineering IISc Bangalore Research Rock Probabilistic methods in Rock Engineering
Harish K. Venkatanarayanan PhD Clemson Research Microstructure of cement based Material characterization Advanced cementitious Sustainable construction Repair and rehabilitation of concrete structures
Hemant Gehlot Purdue 2021 Research Transportation network Combinatorial Intelligent transportation Disaster management.
Jagdish Prasad Sahoo Research Foundation Reinforced earth stability of underground openings and Pavement Strength behavior of rocks
Mukesh Sharma PhD of Research Air quality modelling and Fate processes of organic pollutants and parameter estimation.
Manoj Kumar Tiwari PhD Research Wastewater Recycling and Water and Wastewater Remote Water Quality Smart Water Supply Water Leak Detection and Integrated Urban Water Sludge Fate and Transport of Pollutants in Water and Soil Mediums.
Nihar Ranjan Patra PhD Research Pile Soil Structure Interactions and Ground Soil Liquefaction Potential Evaluate.
Onkar Dikshit PhD Research Remote Sensing GPS and DIP for engineering and Natural Resource Problems
Prabin Kumar Ashish Research Performance based mechanistic characterization of asphalt binder and Semi Flexible Pavement based composite methods for understanding pavement materials between aggregate and asphalt Development of sustainable pavement materials
Partha Chakroborty PhD of Research Traffic flow theory and Traffic Travel Transit Systems and Vehicle Transport System Evaluation and Management
Partha Narayan Mishra Doctor of Philosophy Australia Research Measurement and monitoring of soil properties using electromagnetic Biomediated and bioinspired geoenvironmental Engineering behaviour of unsaturated Geotechnics of tailings and industrial wastes
Pranamesh Chakraborty Research Intelligent Transportation Machine Big Data Naturalistic Driving Studies
Prishati Raychowdhury PhD of San Research Soil Geotechnical earthquake Seismic interaction.
Priyanka Ghosh PhD Research Bearing capacity of Numerical Retaining walls and earth pressure Pullout resistance of Stability of slopes.
Purnendu Bose PhD of Research processes for water and wastewater Abiotic remediation of groundwater Advanced oxidation processes for water and wastewater treatment
Rajesh Sathiyamoorthy PhD Research Ground Improvement Numerical and Physical Modelling Techniques
Rajesh Srivastava PhD of Research Flow and transport through variably saturated porous media
Richa Ojha PhD Research Flow and transport in porous Scaling of hydrological Hydrologic extremes
Sachchida Nand Tripathi PhD Research Aerosol Science and Sensors for Air Quality Air pollution source identification in near Chamber Aerosol Experiments for Reactor Safety
Salil Goel The University of Melbourne and IIT Kanpur Research Unmanned Aerial Vehicles Filtering and Sensor fusion
Samit Ray Chaudhuri PhD of Research Structural dynamics and earthquake Performance evaluation of structural and nonstructural components and design and structural Sesismic Structural health Structural testing
Saumyen Guha PhD Research Subsurface Flow and Bioremediation of Toxic Organics in Natural Fate and Transport of Pesticides and Heavy Metals in the Natural Metal uptake in Natural Isotopes
Shivam Tripathi PhD Research Statistical Sediment
Sudhir Mishra PhD of Research Durability and deterioration of concrete Concrete materials.
Sudib Kumar Mishra PhD of Research Structural Dynamics and Structural Health Probabilistic Safety Instability in Modeling
Suparno Mukhopadhyay PhD Research Structural Identification and Health Structural Earthquake Engineering
Syam Nair PhD College Research Pavement Pavement maintenance and Recycling of infrastructure Chemical stabilization of Utilization of industrial
Tarun Gupta PhD Research Development of instruments for aerosol Engineering control of particles in ambient and indoor characterization of atmospheric formation of secondary organic Personal exposure assessment and health effects of inhaled Source apportionment of air formation and control of engine exhaust and risk assessment.
Tushar Apurv Research Drought risk Water resources systems Hydrologic modelling
Venkatesan Kanagaraj PhD Research Traffic Flow Crowd Connected and Autonomous Vehicles
Vinay Kumar Gupta PhD of Southern Research Random Earthquake engineering
Vinod Tare PhD Research Processes for natural resource conservation and Biological and Ecological Water and wastewater Modelling and simulation of environmental EIA EA
Department: Computer Science & Engineering
Arnab Bhattacharya PhD of Santa Research Data Information Natural Language Processing and Artificial Intelligence
Amey Karkare PhD Research Functional Program Analysis Code Programming Languages and Education
Anil Seth PhD Research Logic in Computer Science.
Amitangshu Pal PhD University of North Carolina at Research Wireless and Sensor Sensing and Communication for Internet of Things and Building IoT Solutions for Smart Cities
Angshuman Karmakar PhD Research Post Quantum attacks and Computation on encrypted data and Cryptology
Ashutosh Modi PhD Research Natural Language Machine Learning and Affective Computing
Debadatta Mishra PhD Research Operating Virtualization and Cloud Computing and Computer Networks
Debapriya Basu Roy PhD Research Hardware VLSI for Cryptography and Post Quantum Cryptography
Hamim Zafar PhD Rice Research Computational Machine Learning and Bioinformatics
Indranil Saha PhD of California Los Research Application of formal methods to embedded and cyberphysical systems and Robotics
Mainak Chauduri PhD Research Computer Hardware and Architecture
Manindra Agrawal PhD Research Computational Complexity Theoretical Computer Science and Algorithms
Nitin Saxena PhD Research Computational Complexity Algebraic Theoretical Computer Science and Algorithms
Nisheeth Srivastava PhD of Research Human Factors in Computational Cognitive Science and Computational Social Science
Piyush Rai PhD of Research Machine Learning and Bayesian Statistics
Preeti Malakar PhD Institute of Science Research High Performance Scalable Parallel Communication and Workflow Optimization
Priyanka Bagade PhD State Research Internet of Mobile Computing and Deep Learning
Purushottam Kar PhD Research Statistical Learning Theory and Machine Learning
Raghunath Tewari PhD of Nebraska Research Computational Complexity Graph Theoretical Computer Science and Computational Geometry
Rajat Mittal PhD 392 Research Computational Complexity and Quantum Computing and Semidefinite Programming
Rajat Moona PhD 7638 Research Computer Hardware and VLSI Embedded VLSI Testing and Operating Systems
Sandeep K. Shukla PhD Research Application of formal methods to embedded and cyberphysical systems and Embedded Computing
Sanjeev Saxena PhD Research Parallel Data Graph Theory and Computational Geometry
Satyadev Nandakumar PhD State Research Theoretical Computer Algorithmic Information Theory and Computible Analysis
Soumya Dutta PhD State Research Big Data Science Machine Learning for Visual Statistical Techniques for Big High Performance Computing and Scientific In Situ Analysis and Interaction
Sruti Srinivasa Ragavan PhD Research Human Factors in Software Engineering and Computing
Subhajit Roy PhD Research Formal Artificial Software Programming Languages and Compiler Optimization
Sumit Ganguly PhD of Research Data Streaming and Algorithms
Sunil Easaw Simon PhD of Mathematical Research Game Distributed Systems and Temporal Logics and Verification
Surender Baswana PhD Research Graph Dynamic Algorithms and Randomized Algorithms and Algorithms
Sutanu Gayen PhD Research Foundations of Machine Learning and Probabilistic Algorithms
Swarnendu Biswas PhD Research Programming Program Software systems and High Performance Computing
Urbi Chatterjee PhD Institute of Technology Kharagpur Research Hardware Physically Unclonable Secure Authentication Protocols Design and Internet of Things Security
Department: Design
Koumudi Patil PhD Design IIT Research Craft Design for Frugal Communication Video Art History.
Satyaki Roy PhD Bharati Research Media and Computational Complexity Computational Number Theory and Algebra.
Department: Electrical Engineering
A. R. Harish PhD Research Radio Frequency Identification Computational Electromagnetics.
Abhay Karandikar PhD Research Quality of Service and Resource Allocation in TV White Space and its Potential for Affordable Broadband Access in Frugal 5G and Rural Device to Device Resource Mobility Management and Dual Connectivity in Heterogeneous Wireless Software Defined Network Function Virtualization and 5G Core Network
Abheejeet Mohapatra Research Power system Uncertainty Stochastic analysis and Robust and efficient system operation and Renewable integration in power Deregulation
Abhilash Patel Research Control and Dynamical Systems in Systems and Synthetic Robust Control and Control.
Abhishek Kumar Gupta Research wireless stochastic geometry and numerical methods
Aditya K. Jagannatham PhD San Research 6G and 5G Wireless OTFS Visible Light Communication Intelligent Reflecting Surface Massive mmWave Multiple Access Systems
Adrish Banerjee PhD Research Cognitive Error control Wireless Optical communications.
Ajit Kumar Chaturvedi PhD Research Communications theory and Mobile Spread spectrum systems.
Aloke Dutta PhD Research Semiconductor device physics and VLSI IC fabrication technology and device Mixed Signal RF Circuits.
Alok Ranjan Verma PhD Research High Voltage Dielectrics and Electrical Computational Polymeric Insulation for High Voltage in Power Systems
Amit Verma PhD of Notre Research Epitaxial growth and characterization of semiconductor thin Semiconductor Device Design and Electron Transport measurements and modeling.
Ankush Sharma PhD Research Power Smart Grid State IT Application into Power Smart Wide Area Monitoring Control of Power Energy Demand Response Management.
Animesh Biswas PhD Research Micro Millimeter wave circuits and Optical Guide structure
Arnab Bose PhD Research Fabrication and characterization of nanoscale 2D material topological quantum generation of unconventional spin chiral spin textures among others.
Avinash Lahgere Research Semiconductor Compact Emerging CMOS Emerging PPA and Neuromorphic computing
Baquer Mazhari PhD of Illinois at Urbana Research Organic Electronics
Chithra PhD Research Analog and VLSI digital VLSI frequency and phase converters
Debdatta Ray Research Optical Optical Spin orbit coupling
Ebin Cherian Mathew HVDC and MVDC transmission converters for high power High power Application of Power Electronics in Power Planning and operation of bulk power Renewable energy Power Electronics dominated Grid Forming Converter Virtual inertia to power grid using power converters.
Gannavarpu Rajshekhar PhD Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne Research Light Optical Digital Quantitative Phase Imaging
Govind Sharma PhD of Southern Los Research Signal Communication Video signal Medical image processing
Gururaj Mirle Vishwanath PhD Research Renewable penetration challenges to the Machine learning applications to power Power Converters for EV and its interfacing Power Electronics Applications to Power Microgrid Control Islanded Stability.
Imon Mondal PhD Research Analog and mixed signal circuit design.
K. Vasudevan PhD Research Signal Processing
K. S. Venkatesh PhD 7468 7855 7846 Research Signal processing Image and Video Computer vision with applications in Robotics Signal and System Theory
K. V. Srivastava PhD Research Microwave Dielectric Resonator and its Microwave Wireless Power Electromagnetics
Ketan Rajawat PhD of Research Sensor Distributed network Network Network coding
Koteswar Rao Jerripothula PhD NTU Singapore Research Computer Artificial Intelligence Machine Multimedia Signal Image and Healthcare Informatics
Laxmidhar Behera PhD Research Intelligent Quantum Learning Cognitive Soft Computing
Mohammad Jaleel Akhtar PhD of Research Microwave material Microwave imaging and Electromagnetic characterization of dielectric and composite Electromagnetic Computational Electromagnetics
Nagaditya Poluri Research Design of broadband power amplifiers and Power amplifier linearization and phased array systems.
Nandini Gupta PhD 7511 Research High voltage Modeling of plasma discharge Dusty Modeling of gaseous discharge phenomena using Molecular Dynamics and Finite Element Failure of insulating materials
Naren Naik PhD Research Development and analysis of reconstruction approaches for nonlinear Numerical solutions of propagation and scattering Subsurface Biomedical imaging
Nishchal K. Verma PhD 392 Research Intelligent Data mining Algorithms and Health Monitoring and Intelligent Fault Diagnosis in Modeling and Machine Learning Computer Smart Intelligent Agents and their Intelligent Fuzzy Image frame Brain Machine Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
Nikunj Arunkumar Bhagat Ph.D. in Electrical University of 2017 Research Neural Medical Functional Electrical and Rehabilitation Engineering
Parthasarathi Sensarma PhD Research Power Electronic Applications to Power Power FACTS Power Utility Interfaces for Renewable Generation
Pradeep Kumar PhD Research Quantum and quantum cryptography and Optical Spin Waves
Piyush Kant PhD Research transformers for Modulation Medium voltage Electrical machines and Motor control algorithms for electric vehicles.
R. K. Bansal PhD of Research Universal data compression with Sequential detection of a change in Robust Ergodic theory and large deviation Stochastic processes
Raghvendra Kumar Chaudhary PhD Research Reconfigurable Active Metamaterial Compact MIMO Frequency Selective and Circularly Polarized Dielectric Resonator THz passive components.
Rajesh M. Hegde PhD Research Speech Signal Processing and Recognition of Indian Sensor Array and Multi channel Signal Multi microphone Speech Processing and Distant Speech ICT in Agricultural Applications and Emergency Localization and Mapping in Wireless Sensor Pervasive Computing and Spatial Audio for Virtual and Augmented Multimodal Signal Processing and Information Fusion.
Ramprasad Potluri PhD of Research Practical applications of Control Systems theory
Rik Dey PhD of Texas at UT Research Topological Transition Metal Chalcogenides and Characterization and Analysis of micro and nano devices.
Rituraj PhD Research Optoelectronic Quantum Waveguide quantum electrodynamics
Rohit Budhiraja PhD Research Application of linear optimization methods and information theory to cooperative and multiuser MIMO wireless system PHY and algorithm design for 5G wireless Hardware and software design for building communications systems
R. S. Ashwin Kumar PhD Research Analog integrated circuits and signal processing
S. C. Srivastava IIT Trobe University Research Academy PhD Research Power system dynamics stability Renewable DC and AC Optimal power dispatch and state Security analysis and Smart grid Smart Cities
Saikat Chakrabarti PhD University of Research State estimation of transmission and distribution stability and control of power systems with penetration of renewable operation and control of modelling of generators and planning and operation of distribution systems
Shilpi Gupta PhD of Maryland College Research Quantum optics
Shyama Prasad Das PhD Research Power Electric Electrical Microprocessor Systems instrumentation
Shubham Sahay Research Hardware Platforms for Neuromorphic Hardware Security Novel Device Architectures for Scaling CMOS Analytical and Compact Modeling of Semiconductor and Spintronics.
Soumya Ranjan Sahoo PhD Research Nonlinear systems and their coordinated control
Sri Niwas Singh PhD Research Power System FACTS Optimal Power Dispatch and Security Power System Operation and Distribution System Planning and Demand Side Application of Genetic Algorithms and Artificial Neural Networks in Power Systems
S. Sundar Kumar Iyer PhD of Research Organic solar Photovoltaic Printable VLSI devices and circuits
Subrahmanya Swamy Peruru Research Wireless Artificial Intelligence and Probabilistic Graphical Models
Swathi Battula Research Electricity Modelling and Design of Electrical Energy Transactive Energy System Integrated Transmission and Distribution Energy Policy and Management
Suvendu Samanta Ph.D. Research Power Electric Wireless Power Resonant Converters with WBG devices.
Tushar Sandhan PhD National South Research Signal Processing Computer Machine Robotics and Communication Systems
Twinkle Tripathy Research Guidance of autonomous Formation control problems in Study of nonholonomic Missile guidance
Vipul Arora PhD Research Audio scene generative machine automatic speech music information machine learning for Physics chromodynamics and statistical
Y. N. Singh PhD 392 Research Fiber Optics and fiber optic Telecom All optical packet switching
Yogesh Singh Chauhan PhD Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne Research BSIM model development Compact modeling of semiconductor and RF characterization of MOSFETs
Washim Uddin Mondal PhD Research Reinforcement game network economics
Department: Management Sciences  
Abhinava Tripathi PhD Research Financial Market Market Corporate Credit risk management in Project Investment Security Analysis and Portfolio Corporate Financial Corporate Valuation and R Quantitative applications in Finance with Financial Management Accounting.
Amit Shukla Fellow in Management Research Emerging Employment Citizenship Psychological Positive Academic Talent and Performance Management
Anoop Singh PhD Research Infrastructure and Regulatory Energy and Microeconomics
Avijit Khanra Fellow in Management Research Stochastic Inventory and Supply Chain Management
B. V. Phani Fellow in Management Research Financial Valuation Real Corporate Entrepreneurial Finance and Financial Intermediaries Financial Markets
Deepu Philip PhD Research Decision Support Robust planning scheduling with local Systems Smart AI based Experimental Entrepreneurial ITS.
Devlina Chatterjee PhD Research Managerial Applied Rural Empirical Finance.
Faiz Hamid Fellow in Management Research Operations Combinatorial Network Data Science
Harshal Rajan Mulay IIM Calcutta Research Law and Culture and Creditor Corporate Finance
Jitender Kumar PhD Research Brand Consumer Brand Communities
Jothsna Rajan PhD Research Public Policy Evaluation
Mousami Prasad Ph.D Research Energy and Climate Change Energy Energy Industrial decarbonisation Green
Nivedita Bhaktha Ph.D Ohio State Research Data Quality Multivariate Latent Variable Categorical Data Simulation Data Survey Research Methods
Prerna Gautam PhD of Research Operational Waste Service Operations Management
Parvati Neelakantan PhD College Research Financial Data Sustainable Finance
Raghu Nandan Sengupta Fellow in Management Research Statistical Inference Problems Data Envelopment Analysis Multicriteria Decision Network Econometrics methods in Finance.
Rahul Varman Fellow in Management Research The Political Economy of Globalisation and Working Governance of Global Value Chains
R. R. K. Sharma Fellow in Management Research Quantitative Manufacturing Strategic Management.
Shankar Prawesh Ph. D. of South Research Big Recommender Social Agent Based Simulation
Sri Vanamalla V PhD Research Applied Operations Optimization and Game Theory.
Subhankar Mukherjee PhD Research Development Applied Microeconomics
Subhas Chandra Misra PhD Research Business Process Enterprise Resource Planning ERP and Supply Chain Business Project Management
Suman Saurabh PhD Research Corporate Payout Derivative Pricing
Suvendu Naskar PhD Research Information Emerging Supply Chain SC Social and Organisational impact of IT
Sourav Majumdar PhD Research Circular Quantitative Topological Data Analysis
V Giridhar PhD Research Subaltern Consumer Consumer Retail Management
Veena Bansal PhD Research Data Software Project ERP
Vinay Ramani PhD at Research Management Industrial Pricing Strategy
Vipin B PhD 512 259 2005 Research Decision Inventory and Supply Chain Management
Department: Materials Science & Engineering
Amarendra Kumar Singh PhD Research Steel Refining and Extractive Integrated Computational Materials Solidification Sustainable Manufacturing.
Anandh Subramaniam PhD Research Nanocrystals and High Entropy Alloys Simulations at the Nanoscale using Finite Element Hydrogen storage in Hybrids
Anish Upadhyaya PhD Research Powder metallurgical processing of materials with emphasis on sintering.
Anshu Gaur PhD of Research Felxible Amorphous Oxide Carbon Nanostructures.
Ashish Garg PhD of Research Materials and Devices for Energy Harvesting Ferroics and Energy Conversion Photovoltaics or Solar and Energy Storage Fuel
Deepak Gupta PhD of Research Organic TFTs and ultraviolet Oxide and transparent Materials electronic and Defects in Modeling and simulation of materials and processes.
Dipak Mazumdar PhD Research Steelmaking and Process modeling.
Gouthama PhD Research TEM study of NiTi shape memory alloy Mirostructural evolution during processing and Microstructure and Mechanical Property of Diffusion Bonded Development of nanostructured Aluminum alloys through Cold Swaging and thermal Surface Modification of Metallic materials by Laser Irradiation and Effect of Processing on Microstructure Evolution and Mechanical Properties in Development of shape memory alloy for high temperature Mechanism of grain refinement during ECAE of Al Deformation behavior and superplasticity of AZ91C alloy processed by ECAP and Friction stir Computational and Experimental Investigations into Coherent to Semicoherent Transition of Precipitates in Nanoscale Systems
Kallol Mondal PhD Research behavior of metallic nanocrystalline steels and Magnesium Phase Development of high toughness low cost Nanoporous metal and ceramics template.
Kantesh Balani PhD International Research Surface Engineering and Nanomechanics and Nanotribology of Synthesis and Characterization of Antibacterial Based Polymeric and Ceramic Spark plasma Plasma Electrostatic Spraying of Energy Ultra High Temperature TaC CNT Based Physical Metallurgy of Based Aerospace Computational Modelling of Interfaces.
Kaustubh Kulkarni PhD Research Alloy and Process Lightweight Precipitation High Temperature Materials.
Krishanu Biswas PhD Research It involves understanding the phase transformation of various nanoscale materials prepared via various mechanical chemical synthesis or severe plastic deformation. We also study various energy such as graphene etc to develop advanced materials for potential applications.
Monica Katiyar PhD of Research Organic Electronics Light Emitting Organic Thin Film Printable Organic Solar Thin Film Electronic Materials and Characterization and Processing.
Nilesh Prakash Gurao PhD Research Length and time scale effects in deformation diffraction using crystal plasticity simulations.
Rajdip Mukherjee PhD Research
Rajiv Shekhar PhD of Research Application of transport phenomena and electrochemistry in materials processing and pollution control.
Sandeep Sangal PhD of Research Physical and Mechanical Metallurgy.
Sarang lngole PhD State Research Materials for photovoltaic applications and energy storage.
Shashank Shekhar PhD Research Thermomechanical Grain boundary Surface engineering.
Shobit Omar PhD of Research Defect Chemistry in Oxygen Ion Mixed Ionic and Electronic Conductors based Ceramic Thermal Barrier Solid Oxide Fuel Cell Technology.
Somnath Bhowmick PhD Research Electronic structure calculations strong Theory of electron scattering and electron electronic and magnetic properties of graphene Size dependent properties of simulation methods
Sudhanshu Shekhar Singh PhD State Research Lightweight Deformation behavior of alloys.
Tanmoy Maiti PhD State Research Oxide Semiconductor Energy Harvesting and Energy Storage.
Vivek Verma PhD State Research Protein biodegradable drug delivery.
Department: Mechanical Engineering
Akhilesh Mimani PhD Research Array processing methods for acoustic source Computational acoustics and Duct and muffler Mechanical vibration.
Anindya Chatterjee PhD Research Dynamics and material damping and applied solid systems with delays and fractional order statistics of engineering test data.
Anikesh Pal University of California San Research Machine Computational Fluid Dynamics Atmospheric and Oceanic flows and Climate dynamics.
Anupam Saxena University of Research Compliant Topology Large Deformation Systems.
Anurag Gupta UC Research Geometry and mechanics of defects and singular interfaces in slender Topological and differential geometric methods in continuum Finite deformation Nonlinear elasticity and biological Mechanics of Indian musical instruments.
Arun K. Saha PhD Research Chaos Vortex Hotwire Gas Experimental Fluid Dynamics and Heat Computational Fluid Dynamics and Heat Transfer.
Arvind Kumar PhD Research Manufacturing processes layered Heat Surface Phase change energy storage.
Ashish Dutta PhD Research Humonoid Intelligent Control and IPMC based assembly.
Avinash Kumar Agarwal PhD Research IC alternate Vehicular Laser Diagonistic sensor Development and Lubricating Oil Tribology.
Abhishek Sarkar Iowa State Research electrode Nanomaterial Electrodeposition and Lithium Battery Polymer Additive Modeling of energy storage and complex systems.
Aditya Saurabh PhD University Research Dynamics of gas turbine flame atomization of liquid alternative and biofuels in GT suppression of noise and instabilities in combustors.
Basant Lal Sharma Cornell Research Continuum Mechanics and Dynamics of Discrete Chains and Dislocation Continuum modeling of Discrete Nonlinear Wave propagation.
Bhaskar Dasgupta IISc Research Machine Engineering Computation.
Bishakh Bhattacharya IISc 7913 Research Active Passive Vibration Active Shape Control and Adaptive Intelligent Gripper Smart Structural Health Interaction Neural Oscillation and
C. Chandraprakash PhD State Research Acoustic thermal multifunctional soft and instrumentation
Dipayan Mukherjee Ecole Research Solid Ion conducting Mechanics of smart slender Numerical Computational mechanics.
Gautam Biswas FNA IIT Research Computational Fluid Mechanics and Heat Turbulence.
Ishan Sharma PhD Research Mechanics of Granular Planetary science.
J. Ramkumar PhD Research Manufacturing Machining Composites.
Jishnu Bhattacharya PhD of Ann Research Renewable energy thermal management of portable energy energy storage computational material thermodynamic analysis of energy harvesting and heat low cost energy options.
K. Muralidhar University of Research Optical Flow Control Hierarchical Porous Media.
Kamal K. Kar PhD Research Materials for Energy Conversation and High Performance Multifunctional Composites
K R Guruprasad IISc Research and Motion Multi Robots Cooperative Voronoi Partition and its Applications.
Keval S. Ramani University of Michigan Ann Research Dynamic Systems and Additive Automation.
Malay Kumar Das PhD State Research Electrochemical energy conversion and chemically reacting systems.
Mohit Law PhD of British Research Machining Machine tool design and Dynamic Vibration isolation and High performance Model order Machining with robots.
Manjesh Kumar Singh PhD Federal Institute of Technology Research Soft tribology and rheology.
Nachiketa Tiwari PhD Research Acoustics and Noise Solid Composite Product Automotive MEMS.
Nalinaksh S. Vyas PhD Research Rotor Virtual Condition Monitoring.
Niraj Sinha PhD of Research Additive Prosthetic Biomedical Nanotechnology.
P. Venkitanarayanan PhD of Rhode Research Experimental Solid Dynamic Fracture Functionally Graded Composites.
P. K. Panigrahi Baton Research Laser Based Flow CAD of Thermal and Heat Transfer.
P. S. Ghoshdastidar University of South Research Computational Heat Rotary Kiln Flow and Heat Simulation of Boiling Heat Heat transfer in Electronic optonic cooling.
Pankaj Wahi PhD Research Non linear Vibrations.
Pranav Joshi PhD Hopkins Research Experimental fluid turbulent flows and heat transfer
Sachin Y. Shinde PhD Research Experimental Fluid Swimming and Propulsion by Flapping Cloud Fluid Dynamics.
Santanu De PhD Research Turbulent Flame Droplet and Spray Soot Formation and Emission.
Sarvesh Mishra PhD Research Manufacturing hybrid surface engineering.
Shakti S. Gupta PhD Research Structural Mechanics of Nanomaterials and their Characterization using Molecular Simulations.
Shantanu Bhattacharya University of Research Bio Lab on Nano Microsystems Fabrication and MicroFluids.
Subrata Sarkar PhD Research Computational Fluid Experimental Fluid Heat Transfer.
Sumit Basu PhD Research Computational Fracture Modelling of Materials across length Finite deformation theories and FEM.
Supratik Mukhopadhyay PhD of Research Mechanics of Theory of Damage and Numerical simulation of strain localization and Finite element Meshindependent and Numerical simulation of manufacturing processes.
Shyam Sunder Gopalakrishnan Ecole Centrale de Univ Lyon Research Instabilities in Biological fluid Porous media Nonlinear systems
Tushar Sikroria The University of Research Turbulent compressible multiphase experimental techniques and turbomachinery
Umesh Madanan PhD of Research Thermal heat and mass transfer optical boiling and porous media convection
Ushasi Roy Georgia Institute of Technology Research Solid Fracture Finite element Multiscale and multiphysics modelling of deformation and fracture.
Virkeshwar Kumar IIT Research Additive Transport Natural Flow Experimental heat transfer and phase change materials.
Department: Sustainable Energy Engineering
Aakash Chand Rai PhD Research Impact of Climate Change on Heating and Cooling of Indoor Air Airborne Infection and Air Pollution.
Amarendra Edpuganti PhD University of Research Power electronics applications in renewable electric and fuel cell vehicles.
Ashish Garg PhD of Research Perovskite and Organic Solar Cell Materials and Device Development.
Ashoke De Joint with Aerospace Engg. PhD State Baton Research Energy Wind Hydro Modelling
Debopam Das Joint with Aerospace Engg. PhD Research Wind Energy
Deepika Swami PhD Research Energy Policy and Climate Changes
Kanwar Singh Nalwa Research Solar Cells Energy Storage Materials and Devices and Liquid Metal
Lalit M. Pant Research Electrochemical Energy Conversion and Numerical Porous Media Transport
Laltu Chandra PhD Research Heat Transfer and Fluid Computation and Turbulent Flow Simulation and Solar Thermal Nuclear Reactor Thermal Hydarulics
Prabodh Bajpai PhD Institute of Technology Research Hybrid Smart Grid and Renewable Solar Electricity Power System Analysis Control
Rajeev Jindal Research Energy Technology and Carbon Solar Cells and Batteries
Sachhida Nand Tripathi Joint with Civil Engg. PhD Research Climate Climate Air Pollution
Sudarshan Narayanan Research Solid state batteries anode thin films for energy conversion advanced characterization
Vaibhav Arghode Joint with Aerospace Engg. PhD of College Research Solar Thermal Energy