Entrepreneurship Cell IIT Kanpur
ABOUT US
E-Cell, IIT Kanpur aims to induce an entrepreneurial mindset into the students and air an innovative streak in them. We are here to water the ‘Ideas’ in the bud and help them bloom into impactful endeavors through networking student enterprises from campus to incubators, seeding funds and angel investors to transform the newly proposed ideas into successful start-ups.
EVENTS
What We Do.
E-Cell organises a variety of events throughout the year to promote entrepreneurial activities in and around the campus. Our annual E-Summit witnesses huge participation from all over India. Events like TEDx and StartUp Master Class take the learning to a whole new level. E-Cell also conducts various lectures and workshops focussed at budding entrepreneurs. StartUp Internship Programme helps IITK students land internships in start-ups and get to know their working in greater depth.
E-SUMMIT
E-Summit is an annual flagship event of IIT Kanpur effectuated with the intention to foster entrepreneurial initiatives and activities in the campus to accomplish IIT Kanpur's mandate of nurturing India's future technopreneurs. Sharing of entrepreneurship endeavour and experiences, discussion of ideas and opportunities will be a profuse learning experience for the active leaders of entrepreneurship in the savant community who can then disperse these ideas further
TEDX
TED is a global set of conferences run by the private non-profit Sapling Foundation, under the slogan "Ideas Worth Spreading". TED was founded in 1984 as a one-off event; the annual conference series began in 1990. TEDx IIT Kanpur is an independent initiative by Entrepreneurship Cell, IIT Kanpur, under the umbrella of TED, to organize versatile an annual talk series from several eminent speakers from the field of Technology, Entertainment and Design.
UPSTART
An event that caters to the budding startups of our country, Upstart stands apart from the conventional Start-up Competition and 10-minute pitching - we strive to give our participants more than just the prize. The start-ups go through multiple rounds of screening, which are essentially brainstorming sessions at different levels and face to face mentoring. Finalists get to develop their ideas and hone their business plans with a panel of mentors.
STARTUP MASTER CLASS
In association with Alumni Association, IIT Kanpur, E-Cell organises StartUp Master Class, a highly enriching and enlightening platform for entrepreneurs, graced by many famous personalities. SMC is a unique format startup event “for Entrepreneurs, from Entrepreneurs”. It brings together startups, mentors and investors to build interactions and strengthen the network within the entrepreneurial community.
STARTUP INTERNSHIP PROGRAM
E-Cell, IIT Kanpur achieved great success with Startup Internship Program 2017-18 season with a total of 151 Startups that registered. The profiles included IT/Programming, Core, and Marketing/Business Development. The season saw recruitment from startups like Invento Robotics, Ridlr, Dunzo, Pharmeasy, EarlySalary to name a few. The season witnessed a 73 % boom in the total internships offered than the previous year.
CAMPUS HANGOUTS
Hangouts is special interactive session specifically targeting the campus students. The session is like an informal discussion between campus junta and entrepreneurship oracles of varied arenas. It involves discussions and brainstorming on entrepreneurship matters. Throughout the year multiple hangout sessions are organised.
Ensight'21
We are thrilled to release our first issue of Ensight - an Insight in the vast universe of Entrepreneurship through the eyes of Entrepreneurship Cell, IIT Kanpur.\n\nEnjoy taking an insight in the phenomenal activites organised by the Cell round the year - a well flavoured combination of online and offline affairs to promote the spirit of entrepreneurship. The first issue contains everything from ideas to possibilities, from candid conversations to opportunities.\n\nHave fun exploring!!
E-SUMMIT'23-INQUISITION OF INFINITY
Unleashing the theme of 'Inquisition' where uncharted realms await your curiosity's embrace. Venture into the unknown, question the unquestioned, and sculpt innovation from mere ideas. With 'Infinity,' dream beyond horizons, paint success without borders. Let this fusion kindle a wildfire of revolutionary thinking, where entrepreneurs script tomorrows unseen.
STARTUP EXPO
Startup expo offers a platform for startups to showcase their unique ideas and the opportunity to orchestrate Product Launches, network with investors, and gain exposure to a wider audience.
UPSTART
UpStart being the flagship pitching event of E-Cell has always catered to the budding startups of the nation. With 500+ registrations, UpStart has managed to sow the seeds of entrepreneurship across the country.\nREAD MORE\nNETWORKING DINNER\nE-Cell IIT Kanpur holds a networking dinner with the aim of not just connecting people but connecting people with ideas and people with opportunities.
COMPETITIONS
Decrypt:
Ignite your entrepreneurial spirit with Decrypt, the ultimate case study competition. Dive into real-world challenges, make tough decisions, and embark on an exhilarating journey of problem-solving!
Upstart Campus:
The classic pitching competition that showcases one's ability to ideate and pitch in front of judges from the across entrepreneurship world. Get the experience of being in the shoes of real life entrepreneur and learn what 'The Art of the Pitch' is all about.
Cryptocraze:
Get ready to ride the CryptoCraze wave, a thrilling virtual crypto trading competition where fortune favors the boldest! Seize control of your financial destiny and showcase your trading prowess. Dive into the undiscovered realms of the entrepreneurial world!
Sell your Sole:
Prepare to unleash your marketing genius in the Sell Your Sole competition! Step into the shoes of a CMO and craft a game-changing marketing campaign for an existing brand. It's your chance to redefine success!
Model United Corporations:
Unlock the thrill of corporate leadership! Join Model United Corporations and immerse yourself in the world of CEOs, CMOs, and CFOs. Conquer high-pressure decision-making, strategic challenges, and teamwork. Sharpen your skills, seize the spotlight, and prove you\'ve got what it takes to lead in the boardroom. Join the competition, transform into a corporate titan!"
Be An Angel:
Experience the investor's perspective in Be an Angel:Shark Tank Edition. Role-play as an Angel Investor with $5 million to invest. Assess startups, pitch investment strategies, and face VC judges. Understand both sides of the table in this nerve-wracking pitch competition. 
Youth Entrepreneurship Challenge offers an ideal platform for curious young minds to tackle everyday problems with ingenuity and originality. From imparting fundamental concepts of entrepreneurship to refining imaginative ideas, to crafting a business plan and presenting it to a panel of respected judges, this platform/challenge has it all!
Youth Entrepreneurship Challenge aims to ignite the spark of innovation and problem-solving, encouraging young individuals to think outside the box and come up with novel solutions. Through this platform/challenge, participants will learn to turn their passion into profitable ventures and develop essential skills that will serve them well in their personal and professional lives.
The Campus Ambassador program is our effort to create an entrepreneurial web of college students across the country and provide them with ample opportunities to develop and revolutionize the start-up world. The selected Campus Ambassadors will work collectively with our team and become the face of E-Cell, IIT Kanpur in their respective campuses. The program will give them the room to enhance their skill-set while simultaneously bringing about entrepreneurial advancement in their colleges.
Mr Ajay Dubey (BT/CHE/1980) esteemed alumnus of IIT Kanpur, has implemented Rooma & Ajay Dubey Healthcare Innovation and Ideation Program (HII Program) with his generous contribution. Health technology is defined as "application of organized knowledge and skills in the form of devices, medicines, vaccines, procedures, and systems developed to solve a health problem and improve quality of lives".
HII program is to support students of IITK in the field of Healthtech innovation to convert their ideas into reality. Young minds are a treasure of innovation and thriving ideas. Through this program, such talented students will get a chance to prove their talent and convert their project ideas to develop product design prototypes. The stalwarts and big businesses of today were at one time just mere ideas of innovation. These ideas were supported and encouraged to cause market disruption and they lead to the success that the world sees today.
Entrepreneurship Cell IIT Kanpur envisages EntreVerse as an exhilarating and thought provoking event. With a lineup of competitions, insightful workshops and enriching panel discussions, this event will provide the audience a wholesome exposure to the vast world of business. This universe would give a golden opportunity to inquisitive minds to interact with and get inspired by our worthy speakers and also to prove their mettle in competitions.
WORKSHOPS
PITCH DECK MAKING
Everyone has ideas but the way you frame it and present it creates the difference. PDM is a workshop on how to create your pitch and present your startup ideas in front of the judge. A good pitch is a balancing act that gets people in the room to believe in you and your startup. This workshop is centred to teach you this highly valuable skill.
PORTFOLIO BUILDING
In today's stock markets scenario, a well-constructed portfolio is vital to wealth creation. In this scenario, the big question that arises is, what are the things to keep in mind when making your portfolio? Financial investments like stocks, bonds, commodities, cash, and cash equivalents, are the backbone for all the industries. This workshop will cover all the elements related to portfolio building.
HOW TO THINK LIKE A VC ?
There’s no single soul among us unacquainted to the wave of entrepreneurship initiated by multiple seasons of Shark Tank. Does it not occur to you as to how these sharks decide upon their investments? We bring to you “How to think like a VC?” , a workshop which aims to clear your doubts and introduce you to the art of angel investing with acclaimed venture capitalists joining us in.
COMPETITIONS
GAME OF AUCTIONS
Game of Auctions would require strategic trade-offs, teamwork, and the ability to take prompt decisions to best utilise monetary resources. Teams will be given a budget to contest in an auctioning event and followed by the strategic presentation.
PARALLEL UNIVERSE
In this competition teams of students will be assigned a product, they will have to then pitch a product that has the opposite utility of the given product. This competition will test the creativity and innovation of contestants and their skill to sell their product.
India's biggest celebration of something which is not for the faint-hearted but which lies at the heart of every passion-driven endeavor - "ENTREPRENEURSHIP". Entrepreneurial Extravaganza(E Square), India's biggest virtual entrepreneurial event where the distinction between a newbie enthusiast and an experienced entrepreneur will be blurred because if someone attends, they are getting to be a part of the galore of the same knowledge and perspective as everyone else. E Square is a week-long virtual entrepreneurial event, scheduled to be held from July 26th - August 2nd, 2020, where passion, experience, resources, and opportunities will converge to make it a once in a lifetime experience for many. It brings together a bunch of talks, panel discussions, workshops, and competitions focusing on interdisciplinary approaches that will eventually break the barrier to entrepreneurship.
STOCK THE STOCK
Stock the Stock, a live stock trading competition where the bright minds compete against each other to design the most marketable portfolio from the rendered stocks through excessive bidding. E- Cell IIT K presents “Stock the Stock”, now show off your Fin Gyan by trading in a live stock trading competition. Apply your aptitude, analyze the market fluctuations, make profitable bidding and let the market play its game. Get ready for a power-packed environment and experience unlimited fun. Compete against the smart-witted minds to design the most valuable portfolio from the provided stocks and win exciting prizes!
EXTRAVAGANZA QUIZ
Does your wanderlust for the world of entrepreneurship, startups, and business doesn’t allow your mind to settle down at one place? We are here to take you on a fascinating journey to this infinite space of diapason of a giant to small startups and ideas. Get ready to be a part of this cliff-hanger event of Extravaganza where you would be vying with the real virtuoso and nimble minds with a passion for the business world. Extravaganza Quiz promises you to provide the best quizzing experience, mind-boggling questions, nail-biting tension, taking calculated risk situations and a lot more unexpected things.
TED is a nonprofit organization devoted to spreading ideas, usually in the form of short, powerful talks (18 minutes or less). TED began in 1984 as a conference where Technology, Entertainment and Design converged, and today covers almost all topics - from sciences to business to global issues - in more than 100 languages.


