Why IIT Kanpur?

The appeal of metro cities is alluring yet specious. Truth be told, when you graduate, you won't remember whether you got that obligatory GPL on your birthday in a posh nightclub or in your dainty room; at the end of the day, it would be the people kicking your ass and their sadistic laughter that'll haunt you for the rest of your mortal life. But that being said, Kanpur fulfills my checklist of all the must haves for a decent city: major motion pictures being released on time, good restaurants, a disco and a mall. (where you can see a bunch of Carrera S's hanging around!)
I'm sure that you'd all be wondering what do we do in our free time if we don't have recourse to the simple pleasures of a metro city. The answer is quite simple - we don't have free time. IIT Kanpur is always bustling with activity, be it a live screening of a major match or a movie screening in our badass Open Air Theater (or OAT in IITK parlance), inter hall competitions, club activities, preparations for college festivals (Antaragni, Techkriti, Udghosh), open mics, karaokes, acoustic nights, musical extravaganzas, dance performances, dramatics events and what not. The campus has a plethora of activities to cater to all kinds of people, from the adrenaline junkie to the lazy couch potato.
If someone were to ask me what truly sets IIT Kanpur apart, my answer would be the freedom that the students are given and the trust that the authorities have in us. Starting from the very basic, there is no concept of an "in-time" in hostels, allowing students to pursue moonshots in different technical clubs or just goof around in the campus (or SAC, which has a food court which stays open until 4 am in the morning). There is no internet ban - which by the by, works seamlessly - and neither is our consumption stinted. The messes and canteens come under the purview of the Hall Executive Committee (comprised of elected student representative, again) of each hostel and they choose who the contract goes to (private messes FTW!). The professors won't take attendance in classes, albeit this doesn't give the students the liberty to not attend classes.
The college festivals: Antaragni, Techkriti and Udghosh are all planned and executed by the Core Teams (students, again) at the behest of the Students' Gymkhana - which oversees all student activities. The Students' Senate is an empowered body which acts as a channel to convey the aspirations of students to the Institute authorities; who in turn ensure that all decisions affecting the student body are taken only after consideration of the our opinions. Even the placements, which requires a professional dialogue between multinational companies like Google, Microsoft, Yahoo, McKinsey, BCG etc is handled impeccably by students.
IIT Kanpur is a thriving microcosm, and this post barely scratches the surface of what makes IIT Kanpur so badass.
(Just so you know we won both the Inter IIT Sports General Championship - students and faculty - and Inter IIT Tech General Championship last year which bears testimony to the fact.)

Why IIT-Kanpur: A different perspective

Hi, I am Sagar Massand, a recent graduate of IIT-Kanpur, and if you are reading this, you (or one of your smarter relatives) has just cracked the so-called toughest exam in the world. Congratulations. On the not-so-bright side, you have a ton of options now between virtually similar institutes and do not want to end up making a mistake after all the hard work you have put in.
Why am I writing this? Because, four years ago, I had a similar choice in front of me and what I remember most distinctly about that time was the number of arrogant know-it-alls I interacted with who simply said, "Take XX branch in IIT-X. Your life will be set." There were very few people who even attempted to justify what they were saying. And all the while, I wanted to shout, "Cut the crap. Tell me what is special about your IIT. Leave the decision-making part to me."
So, in this post, I will try to bring out the salient features of IIT-Kanpur. I do not claim to have knowledge about other IITs. However, I do know a lot about IIT-Kanpur.
Why IIT-Kanpur?

Liberty:
If there is anything such as a single defining feature of IIT-Kanpur, it is liberty. You don't have LAN bans, download limits, compulsory attendance (except in some courses where it is a small percentage (5-10%) of the overall course weightage), no fixed time by which you should be in the campus etc. There is no dress code (students frequently come to lectures, project demos etc. in tees and shorts). Boys are allowed in girls' hostels and vice-versa until 12AM, and you are free to go to your friend's room in such cases.
Food:
If you are one of those who has qualified after studying in Kota or some other remote corner of the country, where you had really bad food, your troubles are now over. Having lived in a Kota hostel, the food in my hostel was surprisingly better. What distinguishes IITK, however, is the fact that we have food available 22.5 hours of the day. Yes, there is only a short 1.5 hour period from 4AM to 5:30AM when you wouldn't be able to get any food. Until 2 AM, you would be able to get food in any of the hostel canteens and until 4AM, you would be able to get food at the food court, which serves fast food ranging from burgers, chats etc. to south indian food. We also have a CCD in our campus, right besides the library. You are completely spoilt for choice.
Clubs:
Interested in something? There will be a club for it. If there isn't one, you can open your own. (assuming, of course, that you get enough people interested in the same activity) More importantly, you don't have to approach a professor for opening a club, you just put up a proposal in front of the "Students' Gymkhana"(composed almost entirely of students in executive positions). If the Gymkhana approves it, you are done.
Counselling service:
Believe me, it is a comforting feeling to know that, if something goes wrong, there is support mechanism which you can rely on. The counselling service is, in my humble opinion, the most important organization at IITK, and organizes everything from the orientation to remedial classes for tougher courses.
Academic flexibility:
Starting from the 2012 batch, the branch change rules were liberalized with the removal of the CGPA restriction of 8.0 for branch change. Branch changes are now allowed if there is a vacancy in the department you wish to move to. Starting from my batch(2011 batch), students also have the flexibility to do a dual-major(which is equivalent to two B.Tech degrees, eg. B.Tech, EE with a major in CSE), a minor in another department as well as the traditional conversion to a dual-degree M.Tech/
course. You can play with your course template to a large extent and have the luxury of as many as 6 open electives(in CSE, atleast), which could be courses from any department you like(even MBA courses). Thus, if you want to go for an MBA, you would have a better knowledge of what would be taught and so on.
I believe I have presented the salient features of IITK. A series of department-wise posts have already been put up on this blog, and I hope that this is helpful. Feel free to message me, in case of any concerns.
Best of luck.

Academic Flexibility at IIT Kanpur

Hello to-be IITians! I would like to congratulate you for clearing one of the most difficult exam you might have encountered till date, JEE Advanced. Take a moment to let this thought sink in. I don’t mean to scare you, but the most difficult and scary part still awaits you. You have to decide which IIT to go to, and which branch to take up, a decision which will affect the rest of your life.
Every person you ask for advice will be bragging about how good their IIT is; what the placement prospects of their branch are, as compared to some other branch in perhaps a different IIT; how they think this will be the best choice for your career; without even knowing much about your interests, passion, and preferences.
You might have figured out that this post is about IIT Kanpur, but I am not going to write about a particular stream or branch. Instead, I will present you with an objective opinion about the academic flexibility here and how beneficial it can be, something that is mostly unheard of when you might be deciding upon which institute to go to.
First, you need to understand the academic system briefly. This might seem a little boring, but because it contains a lot of factual information, you need to know this and I recommend that you read till the end.
IIT Kanpur follows a credit based system for academics. Every course has a certain number of credits assigned to it, which is directly proportional to the number of hours of input required from your side for that course, which includes the time spent in lectures, tutorials and lab. The branch you are enrolled in, can also be called a major, and the department you are affiliated to is called your parent department. For instance, if I am a student of Mathematics and Scientific computing, so I am majoring in Mathematics and my parent department is Mathematics.
To complete your academic program, you will have to complete about 420 credits, out of which about half are reserved for compulsory courses, which means that the other half of the courses you take are decided by you! Here are a few details as to how those courses are distributed:
Any departmental course which is not in the list of your compulsory courses can be counted as a
Department Electives
. You will be expected to complete 3 to 4 such courses.
You will also have
Open Electives
available to you. You can take any course being offered under this category. You will have to complete about 6 to 7 such courses courses. For instance, you are free to take any Computer Science course (like Machine Learning) or Economics course (Macro-economics) despite being in the department of Electrical Engineering.
Science Options
are is a class of courses meant to teach you the basics for all kinds of engineering & science courses. You will have to complete 4 or 5 such courses depending on your department. Data Structures & Algorithms, Probability & Statistics and Principles of Numerical Computation are examples of science options that IIT Kanpur has to offer.
You will also have to complete 5
Humanities and Social Science
courses. They are allotted on a lottery based system, based on your preference list.
Branch change
If you want to change your branch after your admission, IIT Kanpur provides you with ample opportunity to do so. You can apply for a branch change anytime after your 2nd, 3rd or 4th semester. You can even switch between B.Tech. and B.S. programs.
Branch Change is awarded in the decreasing order of CPI. Only courses completed in your first year are considered while calculating the CPI to be considered for branch change. Since every student does the same courses at the end of their first year, such a mechanism is as fair as it could have been. There is no minimum CPI criteria for eligibility for branch change application, if there is a vacancy in some department, you can get a branch change at any CPI!
Double Major
IIT Kanpur allows you to major in more than one department. To the best of my knowledge,
IIT Kanpur is the only IIT which allows you to take up a double major
. You can apply for a double major after the 4th semester only. You will be able to apply for at the end of your 4th semester. There are no other restrictions, that is you can apply for a double major in any other department, irrespective of your parent department. Double major is also awarded to students in decreasing order of CPI, similar to branch change. To complete your double major, you would have to spend one extra year here at IIT Kanpur.
Note: This is not the same as getting two bachelor degrees. If your parent department is A, and your second major is B, your degree will say: Bachelor of Technology/Science in A with a second major in B.
(I’m a double major student, with my first major in Mathematics and Scientific Computing and second major in Computer Science and Engineering. If you have any specific questions about this, feel free to get in touch!)
Minors
You can go for a minor if you intend to pursue a particular field in some other department. There is no minimum CPI for admission into a minor. It is only subject to the number of seats available under that discipline. You can even apply for more than one minor. You may want to check out the list of available minors here:
. This list is dynamic and new minors are added from time to time. A provision for retrospective minors is also available.
Dual degrees
Here at IIT Kanpur, you can easily see that there are no direct admissions into five year programmes through JEE Advanced. This is because we believe that it is very early for a student to decide upon the field they want to pursue their post grad in even before getting exposure to the field. Instead, you have a choice to convert your 4 year Bachelors program to a 5 year Bachelor-Master Dual degree program after the 5th, 6th or the 7th semester, provided you satisfy a certain minimum eligibility criteria. You can even do your Bachelor’s in one department and do your Master’s (dual) in almost any other department, including MBA.
Massive Online Open Course (MOOC)
MOOC is similar to any online course you might have tried out. Every week, the lectures for a course were uploaded on the course website. Every week, there was one contact hour with the professor, where you can discuss any doubts you had in the video lectures. Assignments are uploaded regularly, and they were discussed in the tutorials. Sometimes, you may not be able to, or perhaps, may not want to attend classes for some course. This format is very helpful in those cases.
I hope this article answers many doubts you had regarding the academic system of IIT Kanpur, and will help you make an informed choice. Best of luck for your future.
If you have any doubts, you can contact me on
.

On Perspectives of an IIT Aspirant

"Forces beyond your control can take away everything you possess except one thing, your freedom to choose how you will respond to the situation. You cannot control what happens to you in life, but you can always control what you feel and do about what happens to you"
[1]
I am Nikhil Vanjani, a CSE undergrad at IITK who has completed 2 years (sigh..only 2 more to go).
Congratulations on clearing JEE advanced ! In this article, I will try to reflect upon what situation you might possibly be in and what all possibilities many of you might be considering. Hope that it might be helpful to someone among you.
PART 1
So, what's going on in your mind now that the results are out? Excitement for some of you who got results as expected or better than the expectations and mixed feelings for rest of you who did clear JEE Advanced but performed below your potential (come on, you can't feel all bad, you at least did clear JEE which is a big achievement in itself ! No ? No problems if you don't realize this..the society will shortly make you feel so :P ). But let me caution you, irrespective of your feelings, the game of life is still on. (ah..and you thought life's settled once you clear JEE ?:P )
At this stage, you still have a big hurdle and that being exercising the right which only ~ 10,000 students of this huge country get each year. First, I will focus on some general stereotypes which many of you base your decision upon. Please mark my word, I am not talking of people who have a clarity of what career path they want to choose. I am talking of people who don't have clarity of what they want to do (and I believe most of you all don't have clarity at such an early stage in life and that's normal). I also did a poll for this informally among students of IITK and I will also state the results here-
1.
I don't care about which IIT I get, I will go for CSE
. (generally among people in rank range~ 1-1000):
a. CSE at any IIT- 58 votes
b. Some other branches at some particular IIT- 116 votes
(poll link-
)
2.
I will go to a Metropolitan IIT and consider the branches available there in my rank range
. (generally among people in rank range~ 1000-3000)
a. Metropolitan IIT any branch- 16 votes
b. Some particular branches at some other IIT- 76 votes
(poll link-
)
3.
I will go to an old IIT and consider the branches available there in my rank range
. (generally among people in rank range~ 3000-end)
a. Any branch at old IITs- 128 votes
b. Some particular branches at new IITs- 25 votes
(poll link-
)
First of all I would like to make it clear that these votes are based on people's personal opinions (as compared to the mass stereotypic opinions many of you develop) and that you are free to make any inferences as usual. Now, what I think of the data is-
1. First poll: As you can see, the CSE ideology has around 33% votes. Also among these are some people who are in love with CSE and so their votes in it's favor is but obvious.
2. Second poll: Non-metropolitan IIT supporters win this poll hands down. One of the major reasons could be that they are satisfied with their experience at IITK which even I take pride in :)
3. Third poll: Old IITs win here. Maybe because most of the new ones aren't that good yet. But, I am highly optimistic that this perspective will change within next 4-5 years.
Now,
why this contradiction?
Because these stereotypes have their roots in people, most of whom are lazy, don't want to put in effort to know what is good for them and above all don't even think of what their interest is. Let me tell you one more thing that I have learnt over in life.
You can exercise control over what your interests are !
(still unclear? read the quote at the top again ;) ). As strange as it may sound, but, you do realize this over the course of life. What's even more strange and super stupid is that many of you let this freedom of choice (choice to take some branch at an IIT) go into the hands of "seniors" and "more experienced people" (read relatives) whose own decision (opinion in case of relatives) was nothing but a big gamble ! And, why do you do this ? Because among the people you see ("know" would be a wrong word because you don't know most of these people personally), the gamblers were a majority ? It's a well known fact that "people" don't like to be among those whose opinions are in minority. Also, mind well, these "people" are generally the ones who aren't mentally strong enough. And it's very saddening to see that many of you who cleared JEE Advanced don't want to push yourself a bit more after pushing yourself through 2 years of rigorous coaching :( . Well, if you still want to be lazy and follow some herd, to be frank, the above data that I collected was in an attempt to provide you with a more logical herd to follow (oh, but there aren’t many people in this herd..right..ping me maybe if you want to see the real herd and I will try my best to get you to see a herd whose size is the sum of all students at all IITs ;) )
I hope that I can change someone's perspective at least. I would like to state it again my friend, the choice is yours and yours only. Just have some courage, put some efforts, approach appropriate people. You will find many such people here at least at IITK to guide you through. Go through the
Quora blog, the
website of IITK and if you still have some queries, contact us personally. Don't be in a misconception that we will try to lure you to IITK. If we had to do that, we can spam like those stupid people who keep giving their views plainly and without any logical arguments. The sole motive of we students of IITK who are putting in efforts is to help you make an informed and better choice :)
PART 2
Also, I would like to throw some light on another aspect of our generation of students which may in someway also explain why we observe that IITK doesn't get the best of the best students nowadays. Many of you question this aspect of our institute. Mostly you hear that IITK was indeed the best in olden days but hasn't progressed as well in recent years as compared to some other IITs. And that puts a bad image of IITK in your eyes. I was lucky that my Maths Faculty during JEE coaching- Ayush Goyal, HoD Mathematics, Resonance shared his views with me on this. In his words -
"Today's generation is changing. Earlier, people used to base their decision purely on the academic facilities at the institutes. And they would continue to put efforts and be passionate about their subjects once they go to IIT. But, today's generation has become easy going. They want to be in their comfort zone. Most of them like to relax in their first year. They want some place where they can get best output with least efforts. And hence they find places like IITB and IITD luring."
Now, you won't hear this perspective usually and I say I was lucky to hear this because over the 2 years that I have spent, more and more I have come to realize that this is indeed one of the major reasons for people not preferring IITK. In metropolitan cities, City Life- check, Easier placements- check. Sure, they have their own perks, but I believe those perks are over-hyped. Think over it this way- does this mean studying at other place would be a bad experience ? surely not my friend. Slowly you start taking it in positive stride. (to add meaning to whatever you pursue. I hope this again reminds you of the quote mentioned at the top ;) ) . And as you must have read in many other articles on our quora blog, city life isn't that much an issue. Would you base your career decision on the fact that for those 8 times (assuming you go once a month) in a year that you would visit the city, you would get much better options in Metropolitan cities than Kanpur ?
Man's main concern is not to gain pleasure or to avoid pain but rather to see a meaning in his life. That is why man is even ready to suffer, on the condition, to be sure, that his suffering has a meaning."
[2]. This is going to remain same at the end of the day irrespective of whatever comforts students of this generation want to seek. Also, wasn't this true even in the case of 2 years of your JEE preparation? It sure was ! Yes you hear that right. I say you did take 2 years of "suffering". Because see your condition right now my friend- you are unsure what to pursue as a career ! You were even more unsure before deciding on preparing for 2 years for IIT ! But, then you all had a very simple meaning to your suffering- that if you get through, you will make it to IIT and your life will be settled. I don't mind to say it, yes, I am a devil here to inform you that the meaning was very short-sighted my friend! (devil and friend...weird? no. once you get mature enough, you will realize it's your "freedom to choose how you respond to a situation" and this is an attempt to make you realize this soon. Otherwise, life has it’s own ways too) You will realize soon once you go to some IIT, a new life begins. And I have seen many people in life who have proven in life that the rank doesn't really matter much.
It's what you choose to be that makes a difference !
Good luck !
---------------------------------------------
References:
[1]: Loc 32, Man’s Search For Meaning ~ by, Viktor Frankl
[2]: Loc 1413, Man’s Search For Meaning ~ by, Viktor Frankl

Devil's Advocate : The Problems you will face in IIT-Kanpur

The euphoria of having cracked the toughest exam on Earth was just sinking in when I was faced by some very tough questions, even tougher than those that were in the paper. I had to decide my college and my branch of studies and I had to do so in three days’ time. It was a pretty confusing time for me as contradicting advice poured in from different quarters. Mostly I was told to follow my interest but that was the problem, I did not know my interest. So I headed over to Quora.

Sounds Familiar?

Well I am sure you must have noticed by now that whichever college you enquire about, you will get to know only the good things but I understand that for some knowing the faults helps in making the decision.

1) Crunch in boarding facilities. Thought about that awesome room-mate you are going to have, there is a pretty good chance that you will be blessed with two of them instead. However the fact remains that this problem is not unique to IIT-K but is being faced by all the other IITs. However there is serious reason to believe that this year the space crunch will be lesser as a new Hall of Residence has just been constructed and another is expected to come up by December. After that it’s the normal double room for three years and then single rooms.
2) The city named Kanpur. It is true that Kanpur is a neglected city in the hinterlands of Uttar Pradesh but the thing is that you will be coming not to Kanpur but to IIT- Kanpur. How is that different? The campus is a self - sufficient locale away from the city. Kanpur may have power cuts and pollution but here you get uninterrupted power supply and a green campus with the possibility of a chance encounter with Neel gais in the night and peacocks whenever you look out of the window. Will you miss the city life? No, Kanpur may be a minor city but it is still one. You can get your regular fill of malls and restaurants. With an outlet of CCD and a Dominoes inside the campus along with the numerous hall (hostel) canteens as well as the OAT (Open Air Theatre) food court there is no dearth of hangout places inside. This is also one of the reasons why the Students Gymkhana of IIT-K is so active that there are hardly 2 or 3 weekends free in the Gymkhana calendar that has been prepared. Going to enjoy the city lights on Sunday? You will miss that workshop on Photoshop or Micro-processors or the Dance Extravaganza or the Hall day or something else.

3) Laptops are discouraged in the first year. The horror of living without your beloved laptop. This policy is just to give the students an impetus to explore the campus and all the myriad possibilities it has to offer. However you will still not be deprived of that latest season of your favorite TV series as there is a well-equipped Computer Centre with rows and rows of computers to look after such needs. No laptops means more time for other maybe more productive activities.

4) Mess food: The mess provides nutrition and sustenance. Look for tasty food in your roomie’s cupboard.
5) Academics: Yes, you still have to study after clearing the JEE. The grades you get will have a huge impact on your entire college life. The Students’ Gymkhana does not allow students with a CPI < 6.5 to hold organisational positions. You can still participate freely but you will not be able to organise events. This is done keeping in mind the fact that the student needs to be focused on his studies. Further in internships and placements the CPI plays a significant role.
6) Huge Campus: A problem for the lazy ones. A boon if you would like to lose some weight because you will be walking and cycling miles in one day.

Still not decided. Let me tell you about the good attributes of IIT-K that are unique to it.
1) Amazing Culture: Five Halls fight it out for glory and the general championship. The freshies are distributed into the five halls, each of which has its own culture and legacy. They come in contact with seniors and live with them under the same roof as soon as they enter college, this forges deep bonds between them and puts a 'hall feeling' in them.
2) Freedom: There will be no compulsory attendance except in one or two courses. The Institute treats you like adults responsible enough to make such decisions and gives a lot of freedom to its students
There is no ban on torrents and no download limits . In addition to this we have a highly empowered student’s senate to which students are elected by other students. The Senate works directly with the Institute authorities and senators can bring about huge changes in the campus.
3) Flexibility of curriculum : The academics are highly flexible and the student is not tied down to the branch that he has taken during the counselling period. There are branch changes as well as programs for doing minors in another discipline as well a dual major if you stay back one more year.The Institute does not force dual degree courses down student's throats at the time of joining but gives a choice in the 3rd year to a much more mature person of converting his degree.
I conclude by saying that IIT-Kanpur is a great place to be but your decision should not be based only on the quality of life in college but also on the branch that you will most probably be getting if you choose that college. An interest in a branch should always be preferred over the college that you are getting. Branch change should be considered while making a choice of institute but find out the criteria followed by the different institutes for branch change and introspect whether you will be able to work hard enough to fulfil that criterion and will not let the myraid opportunities distract you from that goal for a year. Also consider the fact that you will have to spend four years in the branch that you take at allocation if you fail in changing your branch. In my personal opinion if you have even a slight inclination towards a branch, go for it.

IIT Kanpur: The First Year

First of all, I think congratulations are in order. If you are reading this, you have probably cracked one of the toughest exams in the world. After two years of hard work and challenges, you have finally succeeded! You have made it to one of the world’s finest engineering colleges, the Indian Institutes of Technology.
Last two years must have been tough for you. You sacrificed on interaction with friends, computer games, movies, parties and what-nots. Now that the results of JEE Advanced are out, the time for an important decision has come. You have to choose which IIT and which branch to fill, keeping your rank in consideration. I am Pallav Agarwal, a sophomore from CSE, IIT Kanpur. I decided to write this article because I faced the same dilemma last year, and I have never EVER second guessed my decision since.
So, let me guess? You already want to go to IIT Bombay, don't you? Or IIT Delhi? After all, haven't your coaching teachers told you how IIT Bombay is the best? Or maybe you decided on the basis of last year's closing ranks. Because the fact is, the ranks though provide a general comparison of different institutes, they can be very misleading. If you follow the last few years' trends in closing ranks, you would see that more and more people seem to be going for metro cities for no other reason than the closing ranks of previous years. Don't forget that YOU will form the trend for the next year. No student is going to call you up and ask you if your decision was right or wrong, it will influence their decision anyway.
I'm writing this article to share my experiences about IIT Kanpur. Hopefully, after reading this, you will have a little better idea of why IITK will be the perfect college for you.
When I first came to IIT Kanpur, the thing that surprised me the most, is how huge the campus is. One year later, I've still not explored all of it. The campus is spread over 1055 acres, housing teachers, students and loads of peacocks and peahens. Located away from the hustle-bustle of Kanpur city, the campus itself is like a miniature city.
IITK has a magnificent Airstrip and hangar. As a freshman, I rode in a motorised-glider sitting next to the pilot as a part of pre-orientation. It also has a Wind Tunnel, an Olympic sized swimming pool, and state of the art courts for badminton, tennis, basketball and pretty much all games.
The campus is very clean and is probably the only place in all of Kanpur from where you can see each and every star. This is a blessing because it makes for loads of memorable midnight walks.
Wait.. Midnight? What about hostel rules? Curfew?
There are none! IIT Kanpur is very liberal with such rules and there are absolutely no hostel timings. You can spend all night roaming with your friends, or studying in the library (During the mid/end-sems) if you want or playing DOTA in your dorms. Girls and Boys are allowed in each other's hostels.
Unlike most IITs, there is NO LAN ban and no Download limits. Total amount of downloads in my first year would easily exceed 100 GB per month (According to my linux logs) and why wouldn't they? You get a whooping speed of 20 MBps (That's about 2 minutes for an HD movie download) on online downloads and about twice that on local network (DC++, LAN).
If that doesn't get you excited, don't worry, I have just scratched the tip of the iceberg. Let's start with your hobbies.
In IITK, there are student bodies and hobby groups for everyone. It doesn't matter what you are good at -- Dramatics, Sports, Literature, Debates, Rubik's Cube, .. -- chances are, there's a group here to help you get better at that what you love. We love to joke that we spend all our time on campus because there is nothing outside it. However the fact is, we spend all time on campus, because we don't need to go outside. The campus has absolutely everything, so much that some students often don't even want to return home in holidays (myself included).
Another thing I got involved in, when I came to IITK was Robocon. Every year, IIT Kanpur participates in some of India's best technical competitions and projects including (but not limited to)
Robocon, SAE (Society of Automotive Engineers), AUV (Autonomous Underwater Vehicle), UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles) etc.
But what makes IITK special is that even first years are part of the team. In robocon, we went to Pune for the competition and it was an awesome feeling when 4th Year students of other colleges would come and ask us about our Bot. It was worth looking at their expressions when they realised that even our team's freshers have done so much work.
You have a family at IIT Kanpur, both figuratively and literally. At IITK, a group of 5/6 students is assigned a Student Guide (SG) who would be your 'baapu'. That might look like a small detail to you, but that usually means that the other 5 students are your 'bhai' and I think you can figure out who your 'chachu', 'dada', 'amma' would be. To the newcomers this might seem like a weird concept, but the bond you will make with your family will be unique and last forever. I still call my SG baapu, and I don't think I will ever call him by any other name. I'm used to that, and you will be too. That will also ensure that you know exactly who to ask for help when you have a problem, having trouble studying, need guidance about absolutely anything in campus. Remember that he would've lived in campus for one whole year, he'd have gone through almost everything you would.
For students who like working with computers, we have well equipped Labs in IITK to satisfy your wildest dreams. There are separate labs for students who prefer Windows or Linux. IIT Kanpur tries very hard to keep students from being distracted. Because if they do, it becomes very hard for them to recover. They also don't end up discovering the perfections of the campus, the artificial lakes and grass covered grounds. It also prevents them from interacting with their wingies, seniors and batchmates.
I already touched on this, but this needs to be said. In IITK, the opportunities you get even in the first year are enormous. This year, for example, in an event organised by Microsoft, named
had its winner team of four freshers (Yes, students from all years, all branches took part) (Full disclosure: I was one of the 4 members, with
,
). In most colleges, freshers don't get an opportunity to stand out, however in IITK, your Year and Branch doesn't matter. You could be a coder in BS Maths branch or a science wizard in CSE. You can still pursue what you like by taking another minor, dual majors or a branch change. The fact remains that once you come here, there are no limits. And once you start doing what you like, not only is the whole campus community incredibly supportive, but also helps you out whenever you want. We go to class in our slippers and roam the campus in trousers because it is our home and these things are allowed at home. We wear IIT Kanpur branded t-shirts, a LOT, because we are proud to be a part of it (and most of other clothes haven't been washed in days).
If you’re still reading this, I must’ve been making sense. All I want to convey to you is that don’t take this decision blindly. This one decision will shape your future from this very day. In the end try to choose a college you will enjoy. Having studied in IIT Kanpur for the past year, I can tell you, I sure did.
This year, I’d also be taking up responsibilities of a Student Guide and an Academic Mentor. I hope to see you at IIT.
EDIT:
It has been a year since I wrote this article and I wanted to update this article with things that may have changed. On reading through though, I couldn’t find anything I would like to edit or modify. My feelings for the institute haven’t changed a bit in the past year, and never have I ever looked back to doubt my decision to join IITK. Last year, this article got many people to contact me (and I sincerely hope I was helpful), and many of them ended up joining IITK too.
Bottom line is, if you have any queries, you need to contact someone about them (we would be happy to respond). But do not take an uninformed decision. There are a lot of stereotypes that go around when the topic is IIT or IIT Kanpur or Engineering or Branch choosing, and many students regret not digging around, later. Just don’t let that be you.
EDIT-2:
Two years since I wrote this. A lot has changed. I no longer think of the fast internet as the biggest perk of IITK. The internship season showed me how lucky I am to be in IITK. The institute has one of the best alumni network in the country.
Just to stress how strong, when I was looking to apply to Google, Facebook, I didn’t know anybody working in Facebook. Knowing IIT Kanpur, I looked up people from IITK who were in facebook and realized that two of our Alumni who were in Facebook had in fact worked with Prof. Amey Karkare, who I had done a project with. I mailed sir if he knew/was in touch with any of them. Guessing that I wanted a referral (I never explicitly said that), Karkare sir forwarded my resume to both the people.
Within hours,
I got a mail from Facebook saying that I have been referred to Facebook, and asking to schedule a VC with my assigned recruiter.
The second person saw sir’s mail a few days later, and referred me to Facebook again.
The fact that:
1. I never even had to mention to sir that I wanted a referral.
2. Both people sir asked, actually did submit my resume without any issues, shows how deep the trust goes.
I feel lucky to be in IIT Kanpur. I can’t think of ANY place I’d rather be.
P.S. I got rejected by Facebook, but I am writing this from Google New York, so it doesn’t really matter :D
EDIT-3:
Three years since I wrote this, and I must say that some of the things I have written in this article about have changed (Hostel allocation, for instance). I have already graduated and I can’t believe how hard it is for me to leave this campus behind. Since this article is still being viewed by a few people, all I want you to take away from this, is that IITK gave me opportunities that I never would have thought possible. In my second year, I helped write code for JoSAA (Counseling for JEE 2016), and this year, I have helped IIT Kanpur conduct JEE Advanced. I am certain, I would have never got to be a part of something this huge, had I not been in IITK.
Make this decision carefully, it will influence your whole life. It did mine.
My Contact Details:
pallavagarwal07 - Facebook
- Email
If you’re shy and aren’t comfortable with messaging people asking for help, you are going to have a hard time later. So if you have any doubts, contact me, and I’ll try to help you to the best of my abilities. Best of Luck!

One year Down the Lane...

Hello to-be IITians! Kudos for making it to the best colleges in the country! We, Nikhil Vanjani and Nishit Asnani, 2nd year Computer Science and Engineering students of IIT Kanpur, are here to give you a taste of what life is like at IITK.
How does it feel to be at IIT Kanpur one year after having joined the institute? Well, come on a ride with us and we’ll let you know what we know and what we have learnt.
How we landed in Kanpur:
Just a year ago, we were at a similar stage as you are(presumably) at right now - going through all the choices that we had, and trying to figure out which institute and which department should have the privilege of having us on its list of students. :P The anxiety grew manifold as the days of choice filling went by- increasing further as the seat allotments were declared one by one.
Finally, it so happened that we ended up at IITK. No doubt, we were happy for having a finality to the chaos that had occupied our minds for some time, but also had traces of doubt regarding our choice. After all, every relative and friend (and some friends of friends and friends of friends of… you get it, right?) had had a chance to voice his/her opinion, and insert bits and pieces of doubt in our minds. Nevertheless, the Sorting Hat had made its decision, so we packed our bags and landed in..wait for it, Kanpur.
What happened next:
A lot, But we won’t like to give you too many insights into the roller coaster ride. Spoilers are harmful, be it Game of Thrones or IITK.
We had heard a lot about the expansive campus- the beauty of the beasts (loads and loads of peacocks) and the breathtaking facilities, but when it materialized right in front of our eyes, we were dazed. We, for once, were wondering how we would ever be able to make full use of the academic, cultural and sports infrastructure that this magnificent campus provides us.
Thus began the orientation program, soon followed by the freshers’ night, and the events kicked off.
It takes some time to adjust to a new living and studying environment, but the Counselling Service did a splendid job of making students feel at home. It shines out as the perfect bridge from one form of life to another and is one of a kind among all colleges. IITK is strictly against any kind of ragging but at the same time promotes good senior-junior interaction from the word go.
And then there is “the culture of IITK”- maybe the most defining element of a student’s life. Don’t worry! it doesn’t take long to settle into this boat and start rowing.
Gymkhana Activities:
One by one, we were introduced to the various clubs and hobby groups that ply their trade in this campus. One finds a breathtaking array of activities that one can be a part of - be it technical, leadership oriented, entrepreneurial, environmental, cultural or sports related. Though it does take a lot of time to figure out what you like, the journey is undoubtedly full of revelations about one’s capabilities and interests and paves the way for the development of one’s personality.
Also, one major attraction of college life - fests, come under Students’ Gymkhana. Techkriti (technical fest), Antaragni (Cultural fest.), and Udghosh (sports fest) are fully organised by students at all levels- be it hosting, marketing, collecting funds, inviting personalities or managing events (including concerts).
Oh, just to let you know, we’ve won the last two editions of the Inter IIT Sports Meet and have won the Inter IIT Tech Meet twice in the last three years! Since 2011, IITK has radically changed its curriculum and has shifted its focus to a very good balance between academics and co-curricular activities and this is clearly visible in our reign at Inter IITs.
Academics:
IIT Kanpur stands out as a brilliant academic institution. This is visible in its labs, lecture halls, department buildings and its teaching methodology. As is the case with any other institute, there are teachers whose teaching style suits one, and there are others. Regardless, a regular approach to studies bears fruit in the first year, and there are immense opportunities to learn thanks to the P.K. Kelkar library, extremely knowledgeable professors, and an eager peer group. The courses that we learn in our first year are common to all departments, so that one gains a good understanding of the basics of various scientific and engineering disciplines before thinking of a branch change, a minor or a double major later.
IIT Kanpur is a place where you start finding and relishing the beauty in the subjects that you like, and appreciate the interdisciplinary nature of learning.
Family:
Yes, one goes from one family to find another in IITK. Shy, introvert souls find themselves transformed, and soon many parts of the campus population seems holemier. The peer group is extraordinary and most students have a hunger for learning. Everyone has something or the other to offer, and makes you a better human. Innovation in any and every field is encouraged, and freedom to roam, dress up, and speak forms the cornerstone of communication. Seniors are both inspirational and helpful.
Food:
One of the major concerns of all students is food. But that isn’t much of a problem at IITK. Here, the mess food is well above the expectations (yes, we aren’t kidding) from a mess in general. Also, every hall(here we call hostels as halls of residence) has its own canteen which remains open from 2 p.m. to 2 a.m. There are a variety of food courts(which will satisfy all the needs of this generation...pizza,burger,sandwich,roll?yup...continental?yup) at NewSAC open from 10 am till 4 a.m. Then there is an MT market which opens at 5 a.m. Basically you will get food at any time of the day! And how can we forget CCD and that too at a subsidized rate... around 50% the cost price. So that’s a cool place to hang out in here!
Conclusion:
If you think that we have given away a bit too much, then my friend, this is just the tip of the iceberg! Picture abhi baki hai mere dost! ;-)
On a serious note, looking back, we would say that getting IIT Kanpur was possibly a run of the best luck that we’ve had. The campus is self sufficient- just in case you were wondering about the city that lies outside. This shouldn’t be a cause for worry anyway - we’ll give you a treat if you ever find the time to go out of the campus more often than twice a month. *(T&C applied).
So,, you can start thinking of taking IITK by choice, rather than as a backup, if you think the institute is the best fit for you.
Some Links for further reference:
IITK future students website:
ThatsIITK Blog:
FB hashtag: #ThatsIITK
Nikhil Vanjani
Nishit Asnani

Another Year Down the Lane

This is in continuation with my previous article (
), written along with Nikhil Vanjani. I just completed my second year at CSE, IIT Kanpur.
Congratulations on clearing JEE Advanced. Hope this article helps you make an informed choice.
So, why am I writing again? Probably because another year at your institute gives you a better perspective of many things that are happening, and you do become a little more mature. Yeah, just a little bit more.
So I won’t go over the details that we had furnished in the previous article, and would dive straight into the fresh learnings. Keep in mind that this post is more department specific than the previous one, but still has a lot of content that the junta uninterested in CSE may also relate to.
Computer Science at IIT Kanpur:
The most distinctive difference in my experience from the first year to the second, was in the realm of academics. I must confess that I loved our departmental courses this year. It turned out to be an amazing mix of theoretical and practical content, with a lot of focus on collaboration and teamwork. The professors in the department put in a great deal of effort to make the delivery of the lecture content coherent and exciting. They lay primary emphasis on cultivating respect and integrity in academics. Also, they have a wealth of knowledge and experience, which makes conversing with them an enlightening experience.
Another aspect of the CSE dept. is the infrastructure. The Rajeev Motwani building is one of the finest structures in the campus and, to a large section of the junta, this is a big chunk of what makes our department “cool”. It is very comfortable, fully air conditioned, and has neat and clean labs. The HR Kadim Diwan Building is also a lively place.
Finally, let’s come to the peer group and the seniors. I feel fortunate to be surrounded by a group of people that is extraordinary at so many levels. One gets to learn a lot from one’s friends, if he/she is willing to do so. There won’t be many places in the country where you’d get to work in teams with such an inspiring set of students at such a young age.
The department allows you a lot of freedom, and at the same time, demands your sincerity and commitment. I would surely urge people with an inclination towards computer science (or unsure about CS, but having an inclination towards Mathematics) to give IIT Kanpur a chance and see if they find it worth their undergraduation. It’s a fast growing place, with a lot of new faculty joining every year in some of the hottest and most demanding areas. Do read this answer by Prof. Purushottam Kar, regarding the areas of research at CSE, IITK:
Here, he has outlined the most prominent research areas the IITK faculty work in, supplementing it with finer details about many professors’ interests and recent work. Do give it a read even if you don’t know a thing about CSE, but feel that it might interest you, because you’ll get an idea of the department and the people who make it an exciting place to be at.
“But...I’ve heard that studies at IITK are tough!”
Wait, what? Did you just read the above line and nod your head in agreement? Just calm down. Qualifying an exam like the JEE is not a small deed ( ask your friends who couldn’t make it). Never, ever take that achievement lightly. You’ve secured a seat at a premier institution of the country, so exercise your choice wisely. The studies at IITK are far from being easy, but they are way better than the grind most of you went through while preparing for JEE. You learn to appreciate subjects and topics for what they are, rather than just as a means for an end. You start discovering what you are passionate about, what stimulates your mind and motivates you to work.
Also, the flexibility in the IITK curriculum allows you, to a certain extent, to mould your education the way you want to. You can always pick up easy courses in a semester when you don’t feel that you’d be able to cope with it, or you can take a few challenging courses sometime when you feel extremely passionate about an area. A little bit of sincerity and discipline in your life will go a long way in making yourself comfortable in academics at IIT Kanpur.
“And...isn’t Kanpur a village? Or wait, does it even exist on the map of India?”
Fortunately for us, Kanpur is a physical location. Trust me, it is not as horrible a city as many of us imagine. Before coming to IITK, even I had serious doubts about the city, and I can totally understand any potential student having them. But it shouldn’t bother you a lot. Here’s why.
Firstly, it’s not often that you go out of the campus (true for most people). If you are inquisitive, you’ll find loads of stuff to do within the campus itself. There are so many avenues to explore, that even four years is a very short time to do justice to the opportunities that you are being provided with. Also, most items that you’ll ever need for your daily life are available either at the shopping centre or at some other shop in the campus. Those with a regular habit of eating out will find a paradise at CCD (yeah, it has subsidised rates). There’s even a Domino’s outlet at the New SAC.
Another major factor to consider (apart from campus life and the availability of necessities) is the campus itself. Before I came here, many people had told me that the IITK campus is an outstanding place, and so I am saying it to you. But you can’t describe how good the campus is, or how amazing it feels, in words or even in photos. It is only when you come here that you appreciate the size, the grandiosity and the dynamism of the campus and its community. Yes, Kanpur fades in comparison to it. But so do almost all Indian cities.
Finally, we do want to go out of campus sometimes, right? You can’t just live in there all the time, even though it’s 1055 acres in area. Kanpur does have something to offer, most notably a few decent cinema halls and one true mall by the name of Z Square. It does have a diversity of eating joints though, and a few truly breathtaking restaurants.
I’m not saying that it’s a perfect city to spend your life in. No, it’s far from it. It’s even polluted, lacks vegetation at many places, and falls short on a few more counts. But it’s a city that won’t disappoint you in your life here as a student. It complements the campus, by providing opportunities that you won’t find inside, few as they may be. If you are seriously considering a branch at IITK as an option, and the only thing holding you back is the city, keep in mind that you probably wouldn’t be thinking the same way about your decision a few years down the line.

IIT Kanpur: A Freshman's Insight

This is for the young prodigies who have just made it to the set of the top-notch engineering colleges of the country, i.e. the Indian Institutes of Technology, after clearing JEE Advanced 2016. Congratulations! We hope a smile just crossed your face!

The last two or three years were enough to put your perseverance, faith, hard work, and abilities to test. Now comes the time to make a life changing decision; this is yet another attempt to measure your decision-making capabilities: the perplexing task of choosing which IIT to head to, which branch to pursue, with a colossal amount of dreams and aspirations in your mind. We,
and
, two IIT Kanpur sophomores hereby present this article to convince you why Kanpur is the best place for you to spend your next four years!

Some of you may be attracted to metro cities like Delhi and Mumbai and trust me, no one can blame you for that. However this place has a charm of its own. Kunal (yup, that’s me), in spite of being a Delhite, cherishes every moment of his life here.
It is said that all good things come to an end, but IIT-K does not! The lush campus is spread over a large area, in an environment suitable enough even for the sensitive peacock to thrive in large numbers. Not a single soul can claim that he or she has explored every avenue of the campus even after 4 years in this place. Having a self-contained campus in the outskirts of the city, away from all hustle-bustle is a vivid experience in itself. From having our own airstrip , an actual Wind Tunnel, and Olympic-sized swimming pool to one of the best academic facilities in India, the campus has a lot to offer. The lifestyle of students at IIT Kanpur coupled with the freedom we get here is unparalleled; there are no hostel deadlines and no attendance issues for classes in most of the first year courses, to mention a few.
If you are a night-crawler, then IIT-K is the best place for you! The night-life here is inimitable. Sitting on the rooftop in New SAC or the Open Air Theatre (OAT), which witnesses frequent movie and match screenings, time flies by as hours turn to minutes under the mesmerizing starlit sky. For all you foodies out there, do not worry, for enough bait is available for you too! You will not find yourself sleeping until you see the first rays of dawn, playing all kinds of games with your friends, or perhaps some project-work or workshop you’re involved in might keep you up, or just the regular gossip and talking, or maybe during the mid semester or end semester examinations, pulling all-nighters to study in the library.
It is always a mammoth task to make people feel right at home at a new place, specially those who have had little or no hostel experience before. The Counselling Service at IIT-K ensures you get a home away from home here. You instantly become a part of a family as soon as you enter, with your student guide! Not only does it ensure that no one is homesick, but also creates an everlasting bond with seniors and most importantly with fellow batch-mates. The junior-senior interaction is at its best, among-st all the IITs. We can vouch for that, any-day.
Campus & Culture
There are certain things you might find trivial in the beginning, but as they say, in the end, it is these small things that have the biggest impact. A live example of this can be seen in the form of the HALL CULTURE at IIT-K. The hall that you are allotted to might be random at first, but it really shapes your personality. Each hall has their own Hall song and Hall anthem, a legacy of their own which defines their ideologies. Every hall is managed by the Hall Executive Committee, comprising of a bunch of self-motivated elected students, who are also the ones that pass down the culture from one batch to the other. Every hall tries to get the better of the other by proving its mettle. You can find out more about this through other Quora answers we’ve attached as links

in the end.
One of the most interesting aspects of life here is the General Championship. An all-round the year series of events comprising of sports (Inferno), technical (Takneek) and cultural (Galaxy) competitions. All the hostels are divided into different pools, who compete for the ultimate glory! The level of these events is more than perhaps what some colleges might have in their college fests. These are a great learning experience, especially for freshers like you, giving you a view to the real world.
Yet another aspect about life here is our interesting lingo. This idea might seem alien to you right now, but once you become a part of the family, a few words will get engraved in every piece of your being and might give you a hard time while explaining, when they accidentally come out in front of your family and friends.
Being a fresher has its own perks. Well, there may be some restrictions too, and all for good! Freshers are recommended
NOT
to bring their laptops in their first year. Every hall (hostel) has their own computer centre (available for use 24x7). The main Computer Centre and the New Core Labs are open till 2 am in the night, and are good enough for all practical purposes. Additionally, freshers should explore their interests, rather than wasting their time on laptops, gaming and watching movies / T.V. shows. First year is the time you discover yourself, and become independent. With so much to learn and adjust to, it is better not to shift focus towards distractions! Moreover if someone really requires a laptop urgently, a student can always contact seniors for help!
College Fests
Finally, here comes a tit-bit about the most thrilling and intriguing part of your stay at IIT-K: the college fests Antaragni, Udghosh and Techkriti.
Antaragni (meaning the FIRE WITHIN), the annual inter-college cultural festival of IIT Kanpur, is held every year in the month of October/November. With young bodies tapping to the beats of music in complete zeal, and hearts singing to every note of your soul, with art bringing out the deepest of emotions and the glitter of big-name concerts, Antaragni has all it takes to mesmerize even the forever-solitude-loving species on campus. The exposure you get is unmatched, and the fun, all the more exceptional.
Every year, in the month of October, the students of the institute organize a sports festival, called Udghosh. Over the years Udghosh has become a national platform where the youth of the nation get together and interact and indulge in a fair game. Udghosh witnesses participation from students from over 200 top colleges from all over India.
Techkriti, the inter college technological and entrepreneurship festival organized by the students of IIT-K, currently enjoys the reputation of being one of the largest college fests in India, which is inspiring innovation and development in the field of science. Be it the highly awaited talks by the brightest minds, or the robo-wars attracting a swarm of people, or simply the exhibition of latest gadgets and developments, that can haunt your dreams for the next few days if you believe in the magic of science and technology, Techkriti will leave you mesmerized!
Students’ Gymkhana
Just like these fests, the student Gymkhana, a body comprising of various clubs, both cultural (music, fine arts, dramatics, dance, etc) and technological (programming club, robotics club, electronics club, etc), is run entirely by the students here. There are also many other interesting clubs and hobby groups like the card and board games club, and the adventure club, etc. You cannot find a single soul not engaged in some activity or the other. Also, sports are encouraged a lot here at IIT-K, be it rough outdoor sports like football, or the leisure sports like pool, or the articulate skating; we have all that a sports-enthusiast would crave for.
In the end, there is only one thing left to say. You never really leave IIT-K. Some part of you will always remain, wandering in the corridors, watching the stars from the skywalk, or sitting in the lecture halls, even after you’re here no more. IIT-K welcomes you to have a roller-coaster ride, with lots of surprises. Make your own stories! Set an example! And most importantly, make a wise choice!
In case you have further queries, feel free to contact us on Gmail, or find us on Facebook:
Krutika Kalkal:
krutikalkal@gmail.com
Kunal Kapila:
kunalapila@gmail.com

Cheers!
Some links that might come handy:




About IIT Kanpur, From an insider

Hello, Future IITians!
I am happy to know that you've already discarded IITK as a choice ,and the only reason you're even filling it as an option, is the last year closing ranks.(which is probably how you've filled ALL choices , but I digress) which is in this godforsaken village called Kanpur ,in the lands of criminals UP. Let me tell you about IIT Kanpur.
Note: Footnotes numbered in square brackets [] are not true facts, but just rumors spread by some IITK guys to lure you to our paathshala, oops, I mean college.
As Kanpur has textile and shoe factories, all the village is that basically. [1]
12 hours a day, hard labor is what we do.[2]
The MSE guys figure out the leather and cloth used, BSBE people grow the cotton, MECH is dedicated to creating machines to make leather and textiles, CSE people use Tally 9 to manage the accounts , EE guys repair and maintain the light bulbs and fuses.ECO and MTH guys calculate revenue(losses) with Casio fx-82 MS while CIVIL guys maintain the factory. [3]
As it's all work and no play here, because you know Kanpur is a village, we are lucky we get Sholay or zanjeer or Gunda screened on a white saree as the curtain once a year. Sometimes we celebrate this little dussehra called Antaragni with Sweety Supari, Vimal pan masala , Vicco Vajradanti as sponsors , too bad we missed Nirma this year.[4]
Factory food is served which has two options too!
Khichri or Daliya! [5]
If we get fed up of factory food (Fun fact: we don't , with the conditioned all-day-studying hair-oiling hanuman-chalisa-reciting spectacles-wearing nerds we've become) we have pakoras as the best snacks here and sometimes if we're feeling too bored with that we go out to the village on bullock carts to buy some Samosas and Jalebis. Oh! How we love those samosas and jalebis ! [6]
Accommodation? First class huts with new straw roofs every semester! The only problem is nearby cows eating your assignments, which is the most cited excuse for not turning in your homework.
And we don't even bother with the toilets because we have a lot of khets around ....you get my gist, right?[7]
Internet is" bagwaan barose" and we feel lucky to get 2g towers. Obviously, no wi-fi , not that we could make any use of it with our 2000s era feature-phones (Yes, the ones the with buttons) .
One day my friend got a Spice Flo used 2G on it, It was mindblowing! all of the hostel(huts) was overjoyed and we celebrated by feasting on puri-sabji(yum!) and dancing to dhol- nagaras![8]
It offers a variety of sports facilities like:-
1̶.̶ ̶P̶l̶a̶y̶i̶n̶g̶ ̶f̶i̶e̶l̶d̶ ̶f̶o̶r̶ ̶p̶l̶a̶y̶i̶n̶g̶ ̶G̶u̶l̶l̶i̶-̶d̶a̶n̶d̶a̶
̶2̶.̶P̶l̶a̶y̶i̶n̶g̶ ̶f̶i̶e̶l̶d̶ ̶d̶i̶v̶i̶d̶e̶d̶ ̶i̶n̶t̶o̶ ̶2̶ ̶p̶a̶r̶t̶s̶ ̶f̶o̶r̶ ̶p̶l̶a̶y̶i̶n̶g̶ ̶G̶u̶l̶l̶i̶-̶d̶a̶n̶d̶a̶ ̶a̶n̶d̶ ̶s̶a̶t̶o̶l̶i̶y̶a̶
̶3̶.̶P̶l̶a̶y̶i̶n̶g̶ ̶f̶i̶e̶l̶d̶ ̶d̶i̶v̶i̶d̶e̶d̶ ̶i̶n̶t̶o̶ ̶3̶ ̶p̶a̶r̶t̶s̶ ̶f̶o̶r̶ ̶p̶l̶a̶y̶i̶n̶g̶ ̶G̶u̶l̶l̶i̶-̶d̶a̶n̶d̶a̶,̶ ̶s̶a̶t̶o̶l̶i̶y̶a̶ ̶a̶n̶d̶ ̶d̶h̶a̶d̶i̶ ̶m̶a̶a̶r̶.̶
4.Playing field divided into 4 parts for playing Gulli-danda, satoliya, dhadi maar and langdi taang.
Although it does get a bit confusing as all the players keep running into each others' game, not to mention the cows and growing cacti.[9]
Ganges river serves as a big but extremely dirty swimming pool.[10]
People claim that it is also the only institute with an air strip and an Natonal Wind Tunnel Facility but these are just rumors, here is the photoshopped photo of a khet made to look like an actual air-strip, as you can see , it's totally fake.
Cheers! Happy Holidays!
[1] "Kanpur is the largest city in the state of Uttar Pradesh or that the second largest industrial city of the Hindi belt in North India or that's it's one of North India's main commercial and industrial centers."
See:
[2] First year schedule : 15 hours classes and 6 hours lab/ week. Saturdays and Sundays off!
See:
…/timetable/coreschedule2014-15-2.pdf Page 3]
[3]
"IIT-Kanpur retains pride of place with cutting-edge research, including the first unmanned aerial vehicle to be designed by any Indian institute
A group of students are huddled around something at the Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) and Flight Laboratory of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur campus, the only lab of its kind among all academic institutes in Asia."
…/iit-kanpur-eng…/1/445552.html
[4]
"Antaragni is the annual cultural festival of IIT Kanpur, held in the month of October, and is one of the popular college festivals in India. It is a four-day-long festival, attracting participation from over 200 colleges of India. It includes professional shows, competitions, amateur rock bands, Ustads and Pandits, fashion shows, Indian folk dances, and other events. Antaragni has included performances by Vishal Shekhar, Sonu Nigam, Shankar–Ehsaan–Loy, Poets of the Fall, Sunidhi Chauhan and Raghu Dixit. The festival also aims to serve as a platform for the expression of youth opinion on social problems."
(Antaragni Website)
Here are the links to the Cultural clubs at IIT Kanpur:-
(Cultural Council)
(Dance club)

(English Literary Society)
(The Campus newspaper)
(Dramatics club)
(Music club)
(Fne Arts club)
(Quiz Club)
(Hindi Sahitya Sabha)
,
(Book Club)
[5] The real menus look like these:

[6] Here is the Zomato page for Kanpur(Note that it includes multiple McDonalds, Domino's , Pizza Hut, Cafe Coffee day and Subway)
Kanpur has four Malls that I know of , Z Square, Rave3 , Rave@ Moti, South X Mall.
[7]
[8]
No Download Limit . No LANBan ! (Unlike many other IITs)
Here's my speed test result in my room :
[9]
"IIT Kanpur also has world class sports facilities. It has two cricket fields, a 400 metres track, an Olympic sized swimming pool, separate floodlit football and hockey fields, floodlit basketball courts (2 synthetic, 1 cemented), volleyball and tennis (six synthetic) courts, indoor basketball and badminton stadiums(wooden), indoor arenas for weightlifting and squash, a skating rink, a taekwondo arena, table tennis rooms, a yoga room, two well­equipped gymnasiums and the list goes on and on."

[10]

A Guide to JEE Counselling 2015 by Professor Dheeraj Sanghi

This excerpt is taken from Professor Dheeraj Sanghi's blog post.
The last time I wrote a comprehensive
. I became Dean of Academic Affairs at IIT Kanpur soon afterwards, and for the next three years, I could not write (but for minor updates). I could not write because of the problem that as a Dean in IITK, I could not say that IIT Bombay Computer Science is better than the CSE department at IIT Kanpur. (I always suspected that the reason to make me a Dean was to ensure that I don't ask students to prefer other IITs.) On the other hand, if I said that IIT Kanpur has great student life, everyone would have suspected that I am following the duties of my office and should not be taken seriously. Now that my term is over and there is a bit of time before I assume the next important role, I can squeeze in a few of my thoughts here.........
You can read the rest of the guide here :

Aerospace Engineering at IIT Kanpur



Biological Sciences and Bioengineering @ IIT Kanpur ~ by, Prof. Nitin Gupta

I came to biological sciences and bioengineering, or BSBE, at IIT Kanpur as a new faculty member just about two years ago. Here I am sharing my views about the department to help prospective students make an informed choice about whether to join BSBE.
What is biological sciences and bioengineering?
The department conducts teaching and research in many areas of modern biology, including genetics, structural biology, developmental biology, tissue engineering, neuroscience, and more. Some research projects focus on improving our understanding of how cells, organs, and organisms function, while other projects focus on engineering new materials or technologies for treating diseases. The modern biology is increasingly becoming sophisticated, making use of advanced technologies and engineering skills, and needs people who are equally good at biology and engineering. BSBE students take courses in biology as well as in mathematics, chemistry, physics, computing, general engineering, and humanities, just like students from other engineering departments.
Is it a good department to be in?
The first thing I noticed after I came here was an absence of hierarchy in the department. Faculty members are treated equally regardless of their age, and this culture naturally trickles down to students and staff: everyone gets their due respect. The department has its own building with spacious and well-furnished labs. My colleagues here are excellent researchers, with their contributions recognized by many awards and fellowships. We have a healthy mix of UG and PG students, boys and girls, students from north and south. There is a vibrant academic atmosphere with regularly occurring research seminars on a variety of topics. We also have fun events like the painting competition, or the annual BSBE sports day when students and faculty play cricket together.
What are the career options after a degree in BSBE?
Let’s be honest here: the large majority of IIT students take up careers that are unrelated to what they have studied in IIT, and this applies to all branches, including BSBE. So, if your goal is to take up a consulting or software job, or get an MBA, or appear for civil services examinations, then BSBE is as relevant, or irrelevant, as any other branch. But if you are among the few who want to continue in the technical field, there are opportunities. In the industry, there are some jobs (although not always as high-paying as software jobs) in the biotechnology sector, and these will continue to grow and become better-paying as the Indian biotech industry grows. In the academia, there are tons of opportunities for BSBE students. For obvious reasons, there is more research funding available for biology and healthcare-related research compared to other fields, both in India and outside India, and this translates into more research positions and fellowships for the students. Our B.Tech. students have received PhD offers from some of the best universities in the world, including Harvard and Princeton.
Should you join the department?
If you are most interested in a high-paying job in industry after getting your degree, then the answer is probably ‘no’, or more appropriately, ‘it does not matter much which department you join’. But if you have an interest in technology and research, and have a curiosity towards biological systems, BSBE can be a very good fit. I should add that having a track record in biology is not required, not even expected, for our incoming students. Many of our students, and even some faculty members including myself, did not have biology in 11th and 12th class, but we picked up the skills slowly while working in the field. The coursework for new B.Tech. students starts from a very basic level and gradually exposes them to different domains of biology and bioengineering. The only requisite is a willingness to learn about
life
.

Biological Sciences and Bio-Engineering, IIT Kanpur

This is how most Indian (JEE) parents (and kids) tend to think:


I'm Amrita Singh, a third year undergraduate student in the department of Biological Sciences and Bio-Engineering at IIT Kanpur, and let me tell you, a doctor is NOT the only thing you can become after studying Biology.
Our department is the newest at IIT Kanpur, and it is growing fast. It encompasses two domains of biology - research and engineering. Biological research deals with the fascinating question of what life is, and why living things behave the way they do. Biologists ask how organisms develop from single cells, how our genes make us who we are, how brains work, as well as what goes wrong in disease. Bio-engineering is all about using our knowledge of living systems to develop tools for medecine, agriculture, research and more. For example, pharmaceutical companies engineer bacteria to efficiently produce insulin, a protein used to treat diabetes. Yes, that's right - we tweak around with LIVING organisms the way automobile engineers tweak parts of an engine, or computer engineers mess around with computers.
At BSBE, we have professors who work in a diverse range of topics, including cancer biology, biomaterials, neuroscience, structural biology, developmental biology and more. They are eager to interact with undergraduates. Our department building has a beautiful setup, with research labs, undergraduate labs, a seminar hall and a lounge. BSBE undergrads are involved in a very wide range of activities - sports, cultural activities, sci-tech clubs etc. The BRAIN Hobby Group (Biological Research and Innovation) was started by students of our department and works on exciting projects. This year, a team of undergraduates from our department is participating in BIOMOD, a biomolecular design competition hosted by Harvard University.
So, what do we learn at BSBE? Like all other departments, in your first year you will take introductory courses in Maths, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, and Computer Science. From the second year onwards, you will start learning about bio-engineering, anatomy and physiology, basic biochemistry, molecular biology, cell biology, bio-informatics, structural biology, and biomaterials. Most of these courses also have a laboratory component where you get hands-on experience with bacteria, with drosophila genetics, biochemical engineering, protein biology etc. You will also have the opportunity to take departmental electives on topics like human genetics, bio-instrumentation, neurobiology and more. Apart from this, you can also take electives from other departments and shape your degree according to what you are interested in.
Coming through JEE, most of you will not have studied Biology after Class 10. This is NOT a problem as the syllabus will start with the very basics. I must also make it clear that the kind of biology that we study in school has almost nothing to do with what is taught here. Many schools make students mug up endless names of body parts, plants, molecules and what not. College-level biology could not be more different. A good professor will ask you WHY nature made DNA double-stranded but RNA single-stranded, rather than asking you to remember their structures. While some amount of "mugging" is required for some courses, I guarantee that what you will learn here is nothing like what you learnt in school. Many students, even from other departments, find themselves getting interested in biology after joining IIT-K and getting a taste of how wonderful it can be. I encourage you to keep an open mind about what you like and dislike.
What do people do after graduating from BSBE? Some go into research - opportunities abound in India as well as abroad; there has been a lot of funding for biological research in recent years. Some take up jobs in pharmaceutical or bio-instrumentation companies, though it's hard to land these jobs directly after your bachelor degree, and it's wise to convert to a B. Tech - M. Tech dual degree to get some specialisation. Yet others go into very different fields like management, IT, finance etc. However, I strongly recommend that you don't spend much time thinking about your long term career right now, and instead focus on what you're going to enjoy doing for the next four years. A career will sort itself out if you are doing what you love.
For those of you who are confused, and would like to try it out - you do have the option of changing your branch later on, if you find that you don't like the department (or if you are in another department and take an interest in biology).
I hope to see you at BSBE next semester! Good luck.

My experience doing a BS in Chemistry at IITK

Firstly, to all those who cleared JEE, CONGRATULATIONS! I know you're thrilled about starting your college life at IIT and its every bit what you dreamed it would be. I believe introductions are due. I am Sanjana Gopalakrishnan. I am an alumni from the BS Chemistry program at IITK. I graduated in June 2016 and am currently pursuing my PhD in Chemistry at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
I came to IITK from Bombay. After receiving my JEE results, I was slightly upset because my rank didn’t leave me with a lot of options. At the time, I was clear about one thing – I wanted to pursue a career in research. I chose the BS Chemistry program primarily due to limited options and some good counselling from the right people. I found that of all the options available to me, I was most interested in Chemistry. This is of utmost importance in my opinion. When you are filling out your choices, you need to sit down and work out what interests you the most. I know a lot of people claim that students fresh out of school are not in a position to gauge what they are interested in, and therefore rely on college ranks and placement stats to make their decisions. While this may have worked out perfectly for some people, I will urge each you to still go through the websites of all the programs you think you have a chance in and try to make an informed decision. All the departments in all IITs have a working website and most of them post information like details of the programs they offer, courses of study etc. If such information is not available, you may contact some of the seniors you come across, but I would advise you to first try to find this information yourself. You can find everything about the Chemistry department at IITK here –
.
The Chemistry department offers the following programs to undergraduate students at IITK – BS, dual degree, double major and minor. I will get to the specifics of each of these one and minors in other departments. If you wish to know more about the undergraduate programs in Chemistry and other departments, you can find it here - majors in both cases. The double major program allows students from other departments to major in Chemistry. These students can complete all the courses that are a requirement for a BS degree in Chemistry by extending their degree by a year. Apart from these minors are offered in Inorganic, Organic and Physical Chemistry to students from other departments. These students are required to complete a set of courses within the four years of their undergraduate degree to receive a Minor in Chemistry. Needless to say, students from the Chemistry department may also opt for dual degrees, double differs program. This option is available to students of the chemistry department and other departments too, though the course structures five year courses. This is still the case in other IITs. The Dual Degree program allows to you opt for an MS in the Chemistry department by extending your degree to a 5 year course. Among the IITs, IITK is the only IIT that offers a four year BS program (which started in 2011). IITK offers a BS degree in Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics and Statistics and Economics. Until 2010, degrees in these departments were offered in the Integrated MSc programs which were three year course as opposed to the BSc program which is a four year by one. Not a lot of candidates understand what the BS program is as most people confuse this with the BSc Programs. The BS program offers a Bachelor of Science degree similar to the BSc program. However, the BS program is a
. You are advised to go through the UG Manual to know about the rules and regulations that govern your degree at IITK.
So what are the advantages of a BS degree over a BSc or an Int. MSc degree? A BS degree lasts for four years. To get an admission into most US schools for a post-graduate program (MS, MBA or PhD) a minimum of 16 years of education is necessary. This means that after completion of a BSc degree students are ineligible to apply to postgraduate programs. Also you the freedom to either specialize in Chemistry or branch out to other departments.gives you can apply for PhDs to most US schools. Of course, other options such as campus placements, masters, MBA etc. are also options available to you. IITK gives additionally gives you the option of pursuing an MS and majors in any department which BS programs directly after their bachelors. After a degree in PhD most US schools now accept students into to
In chemistry, the BS degree covers all of the fundamental courses in Inorganic, Organic and Physical Chemistry. What you will learn as a part of an undergraduate degree in chemistry is very different from high school chemistry. In your first year you will take some Engineering Science courses that you can choose from a basket of courses. You can choose these courses based on your interests in your own or other departments. In your third year, you complete all the compulsory courses necessary for the bachelor program. You will study about synthetic organic chemistry, natural product synthesis, catalytic cycles, organometallic chemistry, crystal field theory, bioinorganic chemistry, quantum chemistry, statistical mechanics, etc which are the foundations of modern day research in any chemistry laboratory. In your fourth year, you mainly do electives both in and outside your department. In the chemistry department, these are advanced courses that you may take based on your interest in order to specialize in an area of current research. Aside from these courses, you will do three chemistry laboratory courses one each in organic, inorganic and physical that are meant to teach you various fundamental techniques that are used every day in research laboratories. You will find all the details about the courses offered in the Chemistry department and other departments here -this you will have common courses with the other departments where you study mechanics, electrodynamics, calculus, linear algebra, general chemistry, introductory biology, engineering drawing and basic C programming. With the exception of mechanics and engineering drawing, all of these courses are important for chemistry. In your second year, you will do four chemistry courses that will cover the basics of organic, inorganic and physical chemistry viz. – Nomenclature and stereochemistry, main group elements and thermodynamics respectively. In addition to
. Go through the first PDF link.
So, what are the options available to you after a BS in Chemistry? Today, the research in applied sciences is very interdisciplinary. Consequently, the research conducted her overlaps with multiple fields some of which are rather unexpected such as biology, physics, material sciences, electrical engineering, etc. We have some of the best faculty in the country at IITK and excellent state-of-the-art facilities. You can find more information about what kind of research our faculty members are involved in over here -
. A BS student has the option of doing four Undergraduate Projects which allows for gaining very good research experience in the semester. Additionally, summer research programs and summer research internships opportunities are available inside and outside India. If you’re not interested in research, you have the option of sitting for campus placements. If you are looking specifically for placements alone, you should know that the core (or chemistry related) job offers are low, but in the non-core (i.e. finance or corporate sector) you have as good a chance as anybody else depending upon your grades and other achievements.
Moving forward WHY IITK? The academic curriculum at IITK is designed keeping in mind a broad-based system of undergraduate education. This means that the students that graduate from IITK are expected to pursue careers as researchers, entrepreneurs, civil servants, etc. Therefore, the system is designed to empower all the students to be successful in the careers they choose whether or not it is related to their majors. Consequently, the IITK undergraduate program offers a lot of academic freedom to its students. A UG student at IITK typically takes 7-8 electives that he has complete freedom to choose from his own as well as other departments. There are possibilities for pursuing minors, double majors etc. in not just the engineering and science branches but also in humanities and management. Lastly, IITK has a multitude of student activities going on throughout the year in the various clubs that cater to everything from painting to politics (Student’s Senate). You name it. The student body is one of its kind because all student-related activities are governed solely by students with minimal interference from the administration. This gives us great opportunities to grow and learn outside of the classrooms. You can find all the information about Student's Gymkhana, the clubs the activities, the senate here -
.
I have learnt getting hard to get used to new places without them. I have received a lot of support from the professors at IITK who have been very kind to me.its a lot after coming to IITK. I have been given opportunities to challenge myself and grow that I doubt I would have gotten elsewhere. I have had the opportunity to try out new things. I have met some really amazing people, seniors and juniors alike, who have had a great part to play in the person I have become. They have become such a huge part of my day-to-day life that
If you have further questions, you can contact Vijay Ganesh (
) or Mona Mirza (
). They are both currently in the BS Chemistry programme at IITK and will be able to clarify questions about the programme and the current situation of the department. If you would like an alumni’s perspective about Chemistry research, you can contact me at
.
PS – We have subsidised CCD ;) and REALLY COOL BOARD GAMES

BS Chemistry @ IIT Kanpur ~ by Vijay Ganesh

I am Vijay Ganesh, a third year undergrad, from the department of Chemistry, IITK.
Congratulations! You have successfully completed your schooling, and well poised to enter one of the finest universities in the country for your undergraduate. A word of caution, which you would have seen reverberating by now already: JEE is just an inception, it isn’t an end. With due respect to that caution, I request you to stay well-informed of the choices available for your undergrad, pay careful attention to the pros and cons of each of the options available to you and finally take a wise decision, as this could inflict, if not a permanent dent, but a temporary slump in your carrier. As I had been in your position about 2 years ago, I would try to clear any possible anxiety you might have in choosing BS Chemistry at IITK. I shall try to stay as relevant and precise as possible to both who are passionate about the subject, and those who see an undergraduate degree as an opportunity for overall personality development, not just for academics.
In order to do justice to such an important decision, I wish to elaborate on several aspects of your undergrad education such as the discourse of the subject, course structure, opportunities for research and placements and campus life:
What is Chemistry?
The question could sound rhetoric and redundant, but the fact that you must face is that what you might expect about any subject, after schooling, may not be the actual concern of stalwarts in the field. Chemistry in this aspect, could be very tricky a choice to take, since this ‘deviation from expectation’ could be very pronounced. As a high school student, you might have never went beyond potassium permanganate in your lab, and nothing beyond the MO configuration in the molecular orbital theory. The insignificant classification of the subject as Physical, Organic and Inorganic chemistry offers no insight into the basic questions that the subject tries to answer.
One of the first thing you have to realise is that chemistry is no more physical, organic and inorganic: It is better structured in the method of approaching the subject: Theoretical, Experimental and Analytical Chemistry. Chemistry could seem to suddenly involve more mathematics, physics and experimentation than you might have expected.
Theoretical chemistry, roughly described, uses the concepts of quantum mechanics and statistical mechanics(ignore if you have not heard the word before) to understand chemical transformation. The abstractions you have studied in the name of orbitals and molecular orbital configuration are culminations of phenomenal research of a few curious minds and they characterise about half of what is known as theoretical chemistry. Other problems in the subject include problems from biology such as protein folding. Broadly speaking, you will use a lot of mathematics and physical insight to understand and analyse chemical transformations. The concepts of mathematics and an excellent physical insight are crucial for this approach, and you cannot give a miss.
Now, coming to experimental chemistry: The subject encompasses a variety of spectroscopic techniques to understand dynamics of chemical reaction. This subject could be very very new to you, as you would not have probably seen any sophisticated instruments beyond a microscope. A one-line description could be: Using the power and reach of electromagnetic radiations to probe a variety of chemical reactions. The reach of this field is beyond description and I don’t intend to elaborate this any further, as you cannot get perceive the subject unless you get your hands on the instrument and start working.
Analytical chemistry is the sub-discipline, which could be possibly close to what one sees in a high school chemistry lab. You carefully plan out procedures and take great care to synthesize compounds that the world has not seen yet. You also get to try and understand reaction pathways as empirical models in the name of ‘mechanisms’, which you would have learnt in organic chemistry. None of the mechanisms are actual truths – They are the most plausible explanation for a reaction pathway. The endeavour of this field is to synthesize new compounds efficiently and quickly, to produce compounds with specific stereo-chemistry and also to find out the most plausible mechanistic pathways of known reactions.
If you claim to have an interest in chemistry, the first question you need to answer is: Which of these approaches actually interest you? The stuffs you have studied in the name of thermodynamics, ionic/chemical equilibrium, chemical bonding etc. are summaries of results obtained by following different approaches: They aren’t the actual subject matter. Once you answer this question, you can claim that you have a genuine undying passion for the subject. Kudos! Move forward, you can start your career in chemistry!
How is the department of Chemisty at IITK?
The department of Chemistry at IITK, is certainly one among the best in the country; The department was once headed by one of the finest scientist in India – Dr. CNR Rao; The research output has been excellent over the years, and the department continues to produce eminent chemists, who take Indian science forward. Few of the Alumni are: Dr.
(Former director, IISc), Dr.
, Dr.
, etc. As mentioned in the other post, the current Professors, who have made excellent contributions to the field include: Dr.
, Dr.
, Dr.
, Dr.
, Dr.
, etc. So, you can be well assured that you enter a place, which gives you enough opportunities to excel in Chemistry. To know more about specific and informal details about the department, you can ping me at
or mail me at
.
BS Chemistry at IITK:
The 4 year programme has been well structured in such a way that you have an overall understanding of all disciplines, including engineering. Your compulsory courses comprise only 25% of your curriculum; The rest 75% includes:
1. The first year core courses comprising of Mechanics, Electrodynamics, Basic chemistry, Introductory biology, Engineering drawing, Calculus, Linear Algebra (and of course, Physical education!), which every student has to take.
2. Humanities and Social Science courses – you get to choose your preferences, but the course allotment is based on lottery. Trust me, these courses are the ones you would enjoy a lot.
3. Departmental core: You have 3 courses each from Physical, Organic and Inorganic, which are compulsory to be taken. Also, you have lab courses in each of these disciplines. These courses will be only ones, in which you don’t get a basket of choices to choose from, apart from the first year courses.
4. Open electives: You are allowed to take about 7 courses, which is about 25% of your curriculum from any department. However, the courses you can take might be limited by number constraints, CGPA etc.
5. ESO/SO: These are courses intended to introduce fundamentals of various topics of engineering and mathematics. As a BS chemistry student, you have the liberty to choose a few from a basket of ESO courses, based on your interest, which most other departments’ students don’t have.
6. Department Electives: These are advanced and specific courses, in your discipline. You can choose from a good number of courses, based on your interest. You can omit organic/inorganic/physical, based on your likings, and go for a focussed understanding in a specific field of research.
7. UG Projects: You have about 4 UG projects, of which two are optional and the other two can is compulsory. However, you may take departmental electives in place of the compulsory UG projects. The department has about 31 students put together in 2 nd and 3 rd year and the number of faculties areabout 30. So, most Professors in the department, will be very happy to offer you a UG project. You can get to do actual research and develop specific research interest.
Academic Flexibility:
One of the parameters, which makes IITK unique is its academic flexibility. You have the opportunity to do a double major, Integrated Masters, where masters could be from a different department, including Engineering(Few departments don’t allow Masters from other departments, but most do), minors, etc. The 7 open electives you get, will be a nice way to develop an interest or obtain a working knowledge in almost any discipline. Your course load will be relatively lesser i.e. your course structure will allow you to take extra courses, which you might want to take, provided you can adjust the timings. This actually will be a boon for you, in case you lose interest in the department, or you wish to do interdisciplinary work with other departments.
A word of caution again here: Please don’t carry any expectation of making a branch change or going for a double major, before entering any programme. The liberty of Branch change will be available to only a handful of students, and many might not get the branch of their choice. Yes, the branch change rules are quite liberal at IITK – About 50% students in any department can make a branch change, but the highest strength in any department cannot cross 2% more than the sanctioned strength, unless you have a CPI of 10 at the end of first year. So, obviously there are issues in this branch change. It is good to always to enter with the idea that you will be staying for 4 years in the department. Double majors, apart from one in Computer Science, have generally been easier to get, but the trend may change any time.
Research:
As I had already mentioned, you will find plethora of opportunities to do actual research with Professors and get to have a deep understanding of the subject. Besides, the Professors are globally networked, which would help you to connect with Professors from other universities(including the ones abroad). At the end of four years(or may be 5, if you extend to a masters), you should be easily able to make it to a good university for you PhD. Besides you have 3 months of summer vacation and 1 month of winter vacation to go for internships abroad, or may be in India, depending on your specific field of interest. As mentioned earlier, you can work with Professors at IITK on UG projects as well.
Campus life:
The infrastructure that one gets at IITK, is surely one among the best in the country and you should be lucky to enjoy them. The campus is lush-green and self-sufficient. Technical, Cultural, Sports Festival, and inter-hostel competitions will be going be round the year, and the campus life is in one word- amazing. For other information on this, you may check other posts.
If your interest is not in chemistry, you always have platforms to develop interest in anything under the sun such as coding, app development, web development, event organisation and management, Technical projects in Robotics, Electronics, Aero-modelling, etc. The best part about the institute is that you will always find people with similar interest, however narrow your interest might be. Also, you will always find people better than you in every field. Active and dynamic peer group, will always help you progress your interests. Students here regularly take part in coding competitions such as Google Summer of Code, and bring laurels to the institute. Your learning process will be very natural, and no one can and would force you into doing something against your likings.
Placements:
Based on the interest you have cultivated, you can opt for placements in non-core fields such as Coding, Consulting, Management, Data Sciences, Entrepreneurship, Civil Services etc. The opportunities are plenty in number. Most students manage to get a job of their liking, since one would have enough time to follow their interest. Core placements, as such is almost nil in the department, as an undergraduate degree in chemistry is not enough for a work in pharmaceutical or any chemical based industry. But, if you are going for research, academia is always waiting for you.

Civil and Environmental Engineering at IIT Kanpur

About IITK
By the time you guys will be here I would have graduated from IIT Kanpur well into higher studies and unfortunately might not meet the incoming batch. But literally IITK has been the best part of my life. You get to learn so much from the institute within these four or five years later (according to the program you select) that you’ll want for more. You will definitely wonder at the day and night difference in your personality. The best part is the student network. I still appreciate the variety of ideas and passions that student inculcate. I have seen people from being zero at programming initially, ending up at Google or Facebook. People who do not know how to hold racket become expert at Tennis by the time they graduate. A good friend of mine had never been into music all his life and see him now, he is there beating the hell outta drums. Photography, Drama, Sports, you name it and I bet there will be some facility or someone working on it. You want to become an entrepreneur, have your own start-up. E-cell and Incubation centre will become your dwelling place then. My roommate started his own firm sitting right beside me in his second year.
And the culture, the surrounding, boy! IITK has one of the most helpful atmospheres. You ask for help from anyone even people graduated and they will be there to solve your problems let alone the seniors. Counselling service is always there if academic or emotional help is needed. A concern for the girls, the safety, IIT Kanpur campus is one of the safest places on earth. I can vouch for it anytime. Coming to academics:
You are never tied to one department. While electives do give you a chance to venture into a different field, you even get an opportunity to change your department right after your first and second year(called Branch change here). Or say, how about degree from two department simultaneously (called double major) that is a BTech in both Civil and say Electrical. Thirdly you can even have minors if not a major in other department for example mathematics. Still unsatisfied well then go and do master in other branch altogether.
Civil Curriculum (Undergrads)
The undergrad syllabus tries to expose the pupil to the various discipline of civil engineering. Till the fifth semester the subjects are pre-determined saving one from hassles of electives. But later provide ample chance to choose from tons of electives so that he/she may decide based upon the discipline one wants to specialize in. The department template involves lots of department electives as well as open electives (where one can opt for courses from any department).
The department electives allows student to take courses from any of the following disciplines
1) Structural Engineering
: Buildings, bridges, flyovers and structures seen around. If Megastructures excite you then this is where you should come to. Also studies about construction material like innovative concrete, steel, Smart Memory Alloys.
2) Hydrology and Hydraulics Engineering
: How much deep should an artificial lake be? When it rains how much water goes as runoff? How can floods be pevented? All about water resources from dams to canals here at Hydrology and Hydraulics.
3) Geotechnical Engineering
: Foundation, the beginning of all structure is dealt in geotechnical engineering. Soil properties, its behaviour its capacity and thereon the required footing, the type of footing from well to mat everything. Retaining walls, mud dams and geotextiles also are part of the course structure.
4) Geo-informatics
: More people use google maps everyday. Geo-informatics will teach you how to make one. How is data from satellite dealt and the image processing that accompanies. Want to go into architectural restoration, geoinformatics also helps in recreating statue images and hence in rehabilitation work.
5) Environment Engineering
: As the name says from air pollution control devices to sewer treatment plants to waste disposal strategies, a recent surge in the environment concerns adds more opportunity in this field than any other.
6) Earth Science
(then not a separate department): Interested in learning about geology, stones, earthquakes, and other hazards like Tsunamis and typhoons well here it is.
7) Transportation Engineering
: How are roads made? What type of material should I use? How do traffic signals work and coordinate? What is future of transport? These questions are answered here.
8) Construction Management:
Given a project how should one buy sell use resources for economical construction? How should tender be filled? Construction safety, Project financing, Project scheduling and Contracting, Construction management revolves around these challenges.
One thing very important is that curriculum here is more focused as to research aspect rather than the industrial aspect. The professor offer rigorous course outline trying to provide a holistic learning. Spoon-feeding is highly avoided and it is assumed that the student is smart enough to come up by himself.
Research:
Excellent facilities in all the discipline complimented by world renowned faculty make research best part of IITK civil journey. A bit of hard-work and right guidance and you can see your name in one of the top notch journals. It is one thing that every student should try atleast once while they are here. You never know how exciting can research be.
Links to some of the easily approachable professors (physically once in campus), to get more on the current research:
1) Structural Engg.:
Prof. Durgesh Rai
2) Hydrology and Hydraulics Engg:
Dr. Shivam Tripathi
3) Geotechnical Engg:
Dr. Priyanka Ghosh
4) Geoinformatics:
Prof. Bharat Lohani
5) Environment Engg:
Prof. P Bose
6) Earth Sciences: Dr. Debjyoti Paul
7) Transportation Engg:
Prof. Animesh Das
8) Construction Management: Prof. Sudhir Misra
Regarding job opportunities
1) Government Sector
People intending to join PSU’s , IES and other government sector jobs. There is a good number of people applying of the above be it undergraduates or master students. A lot of material and help and tips are handy from the topper themselves placed in CPWD, Railways etc.
2) Civil Engineering (Core):
The opportunities for undergraduates are limited in terms of the firm offering jobs. Many companies coming for placement prefer a master’s degree. The initial payoff is relatively less than the other options but then a couple of year of experience and see how does the salary booms.
3) Non-core (apart from engineering):
Quite a few people apply for non-core jobs including software, finance, market analytics etc. The easy curriculum and judicious choice of electives provide ample time to prepare for the same.
4) Research and higher studies:
One of the opportunities where the brand name of IITK can be seen into action is getting into higher studies including Masters and PhD program including places like Stanford, Berkeley, GeorgiaTech etc. Decent academics and project can lead one into a good university abroad. The dual degree programme which one can opt for in the end of 6th semester is like a cheat to get admission early saving a student’s precious time.
Clubs and Events:
Descon: This hobby group allows for a hand on experience on making and testing small structures made up of ice-cream sticks, spaghetti and earthquake resisting building. They also conduct free workshops to teach SAP2000 software to analyse structures.
Techkriti and Takneek: Plethora of fun-filled as well as informative activities compounded by tons of cash makes these fests a sought out for. All that is needed is enthusiasm.
Bridge Design Challenge in Techkriti
By:
Tejas Baid, senior undergraduate from IIT Kanpur from civil department (the guy to the left of the red t-shirt guy, in the centre) on my way to masters in Structural Engg from University of California San Diego.
Looking forward to meet you in one of your international internships. :)

Computer Science and Engineering, IIT Kanpur

First of all, I would like to congratulate you and your family for this outstanding feat of clearing JEE'15.
I guess introductions are in order, I am Srijan R Shetty, an alumi - it'll take considerable time to digest that fact - at the department of Computer Science and Engineering at IIT Kanpur.
Before you embark upon the tedious journey of reading through this entire post, I would urge you to go through Professor Dheeraj Sanghi's blog "
". Additionally, he's active on Quora; and most certainly will answer pertinent questions.
There are some excellant posts written by my peers at IITK out in the wild and as my computer science education has taught me not to reinvent the wheel, I shall compile the best bits from their articles.
Why IITK?
does an excellent job of answering this question:

Why IIT Kanpur? The cultural festival of IIT Kanpur, Antaragni, is run virtually entirely by students. The Students' Gymkhana is a body made of students of all batches. The New SAC (Students' Activity Center, a place for people to hang out) was majorly planned by the students of three batches, and the franchises selected for its food court were selected by a panel of students. The degree of freedom given to students at IIT Kanpur is, in my opinion, definitely larger than most other institutes. IIT Kanpur also has the distinct advantage of being in a city that is much lesser developed than places like Mumbai and Delhi. Why is this an advantage? IIT Kanpur has become self-contained, because there is a larger incentive to make everything available on campus. The choices of extra-curricular activities are larger, the food options are cheap and more varied, and all sections of the campus are together, making it a tighter, closer-knit location. Each club has its own advantages. Some clubs improve your speaking skill; others teach you a new art; even others let you hone your intellect in the direction you want. Art, music, literature, dance, electronics, robotics, photography, whatever your interest, there is going to be an outlet. If there isn't, it is not hard to create an outlet or a club for an interest you feel will benefit you. There are certain to be more people interested in the things you like.
IITK's academic curriculum was revised in 2011 and the new curriculum was one of the primary reasons why I joined IITK. The curriculum contains two parts: a departmental core and a compulsory core.
In the very first year, all courses are department neutral. You will get to learn Mechanics and Electromagnetic Theory in Physics, Organic, Inorganic and Physical Chemistry in Chemistry, Basic Life Sciences (yes Biology!), Engineering Graphics, Linear Algebra and Calculus in Mathematics and (the dreaded) morning exercises. Having the first year being departmental neutral works out for students who change their branches. (A side note on branch changes, don't bank on them. Albeit I managed to change my branch from Civil to Computer Science, they are a tricky slope to ascend.) To break the monotony and gain a broader outlook, you will be doing atleast five Humanities and Social Sciences Courses in your stay at IITK. (I've done courses in Philosophy, Pyschology, Art, Human Rights and will be doing one in Economics next fall. While people may disagree, I've found these courses liberating - pun intended.)
The CS course curriculums looks as follows:
, you can cross reference the course numbers from
.
gave a very good overview of how your curriculum will work: (I did make a few changes so that the data matches with that of CSE)

While pursuing CSE at IITK, you will have the option of taking 6 Open Electives(OE), 4 Engineering Science Options(ESO), 4 Departmental Electives(DE), UGP-I(Undergraduate Project)(optional) and UGP-II & III (Undergraduate Project II which can be substituted with another DE or OE) and UGP-IV(this is to earn extra credits), 5 HSS courses(2 from level-I HSS and 3 from Level-II HSS bracket).
Open Electives as the name suggests are courses you can opt from any department including your own. These are the courses which render flexibility to your programme. But choosing these courses from a discipline which interests you, you can even go for a Minor in that discipline provided you fulfil the criteria set. For example you are interested in Computer Science, you can take OE's accordingly that make you eligible to obtain a Minor in CSE after 4years with a Major in Maths(Note: From the current status, CSE Dept. of IIT-Kanpur has offered no Minors and hence the example is a purely hypothetical one. I will upload the pdf which gives options regarding minors for the batch 11
students of Kanpur).

Science Options are courses in other Science discipline like Physics and Chemistry. You will have to choose a total of 2 such courses. Departmental Electives are courses you can choose from your own Department template subject to what courses are offered in the semester.
The flexibility of IITK's new academic programme was what made it an obvious choice for me. You can take up minors in departments which interest you, or take up a secondary major in an another department altogether, you are also given the option for dual degrees. Also with a new branch change policy in place, I believe that it will be easier for students to get a branch change.
(The new academic curriculum is finally stabilizing and only a few minors kinks need to be ironed out).
Finally I would like to say: IITK has shaped the person that I've become today. In IITK, I developed a new found vigour towards learning in general, which is veritably unlike the rote learning I did in school. I believe this is partly because of professors who spend hours preparing for our next lectures and partly because of the students over here who never fail to me amaze me with what they are capable of (both in life and academics). I've been showered with opportunities and I've met people who I'll cherish for a lifetime.
Feel free to ask any questions, you could drop a mail at
srijans@iitk.ac.in
or you could ping me on facebook
.
Hope this will be of some use.
Live long and prosper,
Srijan

Computer Science and IIT Kanpur

So, as people following my life closely (friends, family, the NSA) would already know, after finishing my Physics degree at IIT Kanpur, I chose to stay there a while longer in the form of a Computer Science degree at IIT Kanpur. And, since I'd already written about
and considering that the JEE-A result should be out by now, here's part 2 of the saga:
Why Computer Science at IIT Kanpur
.

A good friend of mine, Srijan Shetty has already written a wonderful piece about exactly this topic:
Here's my take, however:

First, a recap
(jump over this paragraph if you've read my previous post. It's the same)
:
I want to shed some light on the format IIT Kanpur follows. IIT Kanpur has a semester system (with two semesters a year). Each department has some compulsary courses and some elective options. For example, physics students have to compulsarily take courses on Quantum Mechanics, Statistical Mechanics, Condensed Matter Physics, and the like. Electives can be from any department. All courses carry certain weightages called credits. Each student has to complete a total number of credits for their degree. Some of these credits will come from compulsary courses, and the rest from electives.
Why IIT Kanpur? The cultural festival of IIT Kanpur, Antaragni, is run virtually entirely by students. The Students' Gymkhana is a body made of students of all batches. The New SAC (Students' Activity Center, a place for people to hang out) was majorly planned by the students of three batches, and the franchises selected for its food court were selected by a panel of students. The degree of freedom given to students at IIT Kanpur is, in my opinion, definitely larger than most other institutes. IIT Kanpur also has the distinct advantage of being in a city that is much lesser developed than places like Mumbai and Delhi. Why is this an advantage? IIT Kanpur has become self-contained, because there is a larger incentive to make everything available on campus. The choices of extra-curricular activities are larger, the food options are cheap and more varied, and all sections of the campus are together, making it a tighter, closer-knit location. Each club has its own advantages. Some clubs improve your speaking skill; others teach you a new art; even others let you hone your intellect in the direction you want. Art, music, literature, dance, electronics, robotics, photography, whatever your interest, there is going to be an outlet. If there isn't, it is not hard to create an outlet or a club for an interest you feel will benefit you. There are certain to be more people interested in the things you like.
Here comes the new stuff:
Why IIT Kanpur? I've recently understood that important things like campus recruitment are also in the hands of students here, and they sure have done a fine job till now. IIT Kanpur has a student-made planetarium, a student-run observatory, an air-strip, an ACTUAL wind-tunnel (I'm looking at you, IITD). IIT Kanpur's incubation center is one of the most successful in India, and has won national awards. IIT Kanpur's research paper count is (to my knowledge) the highest of the IITs, and (definitely) one of the highest in India. We have people from all walks of life, interacting, learning, and experiencing life in a whole new way. We also have peacocks. Lots and lots of peacocks. So many peacocks, that you're going to be bored of the national bird after a while.


Why computer science? Most people probably won't see the point of my spending time writing anything out here. I mean, nearly every top-ranker in JEE goes for CSE. However, that's actually part of the problem. I know people that are very interested in computer science, and didn't get it because of this rat-race. I know people that didn't want to study computer science, but were 'forced' to by their families and/or peers because of their good rank.
The reasons I'm going to give for choosing computer science have nothing to do with the package offered to CSE degree-holders, because, honestly, money isn't everything. I know it's pretty clichéd, but it's still true (Plus, you know, we have a brilliant placement record, so it isn't a problem, even if money is a concern). That's a different rant, however, and we'll discuss that some other time, or over chat, if you wish.
Why computer science, if it's not about the money? Because computers are taking over every aspect of our lives nowadays, and everything, from cars, to refrigerators, to watches, to shoes have computers in them. And, knowing how computers work - understanding how computers can make our lives easier at a personal level - will help us be able to utilize this ability of computers more effectively.
Computers nowadays are reaching a level where we've 'nearly' reached sentience. We've had computers claiming to have beaten the Turing test, and we've definitely reached a stage where that's a possibility. We have social networks observing every step we take, and security organizations preventing that from taking place. We have crowd-funded movies, and crowd-sourced games. Won't it feel exhilarating to be a part of this?

The learning curve is very steep, note, mainly because there are new applications and technologies coming up everyday; but the thrill of coding a program that predicts someone's age given his/her name is one you have to experience.


Why CSE at IIT Kanpur then? I mean, we have the BEST faculty in India. We have Padma Shri awardees, and the AKS-primality paper authors. We have Rajeev Motwani (in spirit)! We have wonderful collaborations with the best companies in the industry (yes, Microsoft, Google, etc.). We have awesome hackathons, that have tasty food and brilliant goodies. We have a fantastic peer-group. We have ACM-ICPC finalists, professionals with job experience enhancing their education, talented geniuses, and ingenious minds. The open elective system makes sure CSE students, interested in learning algorithms or haskell can pit their minds against the best brains in other branches too. And who knows? Maybe you'll be a part of a successful startup earning millions off android apps (TinyMogul), or be a part of the brains behind test portals (HackerRank).

Additionally, (as mentioned in my previous post), The BTech program at IIT Kanpur has the following broad categories: Core courses that every department undergraduate student will do - physics, mathematics, electronics, computer science, and engineering. I'll go into more detail in a bit. The second category are electives - HSS (humanities and social science) electives and open electives. The third category consists of the core department courses and departmental electives. The first category is wonderful for anyone interested in computational physics or hardware development/hacking (
). You get the huge advantage of learning to draw engineering drawings, and more importantly actually make something in the mechanical engineering and metallurgical engineering labs. Additionally, you'll always be in touch with engineering students, professors, departments, and research. I believe everyone should get the exposure the first few years at IITK provides (hence a rehash of the old paragraph). The second category is something very important for creating a wholesome human being. The years after finishing school are not just for studying, but also for creating an adult. When I entered IIT Kanpur, I was a kid that didn't know much about life, and little apart from my own subject. These electives gave me the opportunity to discover how much I like literature, philosophy, computer science, and chemistry. They gave me exposure to students and teachers with entirely different mindsets and approaches. In fact, I spent lots of the electives that I had on computer science courses, and I've learnt a lot from them. This point is more of a 'why IIT Kanpur' point than a 'why CSE at IITK' point, but it's important enough. In fact, showing that IIT Kanpur is emphasizing on this, they've just started a system of Dual Degrees, Dual Majors and Minors, that allow a student to study two different topics at the same time, and have degrees to show for both. I can actually do a BS in Chemistry and get an MTech in Mechanical Engineering, within a span of 5 years, if I wish to. Similarly, I can get a BTech in Biological Sciences and Bio-Engineering, and collect a Computer Science minor at the same time, in 4 years, if I am so inclined. IIT Kanpur understands the point of interdisciplinary studies.
The third set of courses are the reason you're considering CSE in the first place, and they shall be the main point in my next paragraph.


The Computer Science and Engineering department at IIT Kanpur has work that can broadly be broken down into two categories: Theory and Systems. Most of the foundational courses deal with theory (the theory of theory, and the theory behind systems), and you get to learn a LOT about exactly why things are the way they are. That's important, you know. Let's take an example. Lots of people agree that the Internet is broken. It was never built with privacy/security in mind. We just found a HUGE bug in the OpenSSL code being used everywhere. The only way to be able to fix stuff like that is to know exactly what bricks these fundamental tools are built with.
Our theory courses range from Data Structures, Information Theory, and Game Theory, to the Riemann Hypothesis, to Randomized Algorithms. And our professors are excellent at theory.
Our systems courses range from Machine Learning, Data Mining, Cognition, to Quantum Computing, Computer Security, and Databases, to Artificial Intelligence, Biometrics and Computer Vision. And our professors are brilliant at systems.


Three final points to conclude my elaborate essay. You've all heard that IIT Kanpur is gruelling. That's... true. But the flip side is that IIT Kanpur prepares you for everything the world can throw at you. And that's what distinguishes a true gem from the muck. I mean, LIFE is DEFINITELY more gruelling than IIT Kanpur. And college is supposed to be a stepping stone to life. IITK does a very good job of that.
Secondly, there's always so much to do here! I've been involved in student placements, the institute magazine, teaching underprivileged children, the card and board games group, the literary society, the programming club, the robotics club, and a dozen other things I can't even think of. That's where I'm getting most of my learning from, at the end of the day. Because it's always society that counts. And IIT Kanpur is closely knit.


Thirdly, I'm not going to cry if you don't come to IIT Kanpur. Even if I try not to be, I'm probably still biased. But, you're definitely missing out on a brilliant opportunity to spar with the best faculty and students if you don't come here. I hope you look beyond names when choosing a college. I hope you look beyond a job at 21 when you choose a home at the age of 18. I hope you look beyond ease when you look for a place to study. And, I hope you have the common sense to make the most of the effort you've invested in clearing a very hard examination, by continuing to work hard for a few more years before relaxing.


My father always told me, in 11th grade, "Son, you'll need to work really hard for at least 5 years. But, if you do, I know you'll be able to enjoy for the next 50."
Well, I've worked really hard for 7 years. And I've been enjoying for the past 7 years, so he was mostly right, wasn't he?

Research @CSE IIT Kanpur

What are some good areas of research in computer science at IIT Kanpur? by Purushottam Kar

IIT Kanpur and Computer Vision

A wonderful post by Dr. Purushottam Kar on research in Computer Vision conducted at IIT Kanpur.

An insight into Department of Economic Sciences at IIT Kanpur

By: Ayush Agrawal and Tanisha Mishra
First of all, congratulations for having cleared one of the most competitive exams of the country! You must have realised by now that the JEE counselling process is a very bothersome and daunting task. Everyone faces the perplexing dilemma of choosing the right branch at the right college especially because most students don't have any particular interest in any branch. But not to worry! Talk to as many people as you can and you will reach the right place. And after that, prepare yourself for an adventurous and exciting journey waiting for you ahead. We assure you the next 4 years will be the best of your life.
With this article, we hope to resolve any doubts or inhibitions you might have about the BS Economic Sciences program at IIT Kanpur. We were in the same painful situation that you are in 3 years ago, and we are very glad we made the decision of choosing to study Economics@IITK.
A brief history:
It was way back in the year 2005 when the authorities at IIT Kanpur and IIT Kharagpur, realising the need from corporate world and its research prospects, initiated a program in Economics for undergraduate students. Initially, the program was a 5 year integrated M.S course however later it was converted to 4 year B.S program at IIT Kanpur- Bachelor in Science or B.S. in Economics.
Precisely, the Economics departments at IIT Kanpur and IIT Kharagpur were not independent departments. They were a part of the Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS) department which includes other disciplines such as Psychology, Philosophy, Sociology and others. However, with the recent efforts of students and faculty, IIT Kanpur become the first ever institute among all the other sister IITs to establish an independent department of Economics now called as ‘Department of Economic Sciences’.
Why Economics at a technical institute?
It may definitely sound a little weird to you as to why technical institutes like IIT Kanpur are offering a Bachelor’s degree in Economics. We can imagine what's going on in your mind right now- I studied Economics at a very basic level and that too in 9th and 10th standard! I have been studying Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics for a whole of 2-3 years and now Economics...Seriously?
To answer this, we have an excerpt from an interview of Dr. Vimal Kumar who is currently an Associate Professor at Department of Economics Sciences at IIT Kanpur:
“Economics is basically a social science. However, it has acquired certain characteristics of engineering disciplines. Let me compare Economics with Engineering. According to New Oxford American Dictionary, Engineering is the branch of science and technology concerned with the design, building, and use of engines, machines, and structures. Of course, economists don’t design or built machine or any physical structures. However if you pay attention to the definition of engineering, you will see that the keywords used in defining the discipline are design, build, and use of structures. Exactly same words are used to describe the dominant methodology of Economics, Economic Modelling.
IIT Kanpur has realised that the science, particularly mathematics, based education which forms the core for engineering education also forms the core of modern education in Economics. To capitalise on this synergy, IIT Kanpur offers a four year bachelor in sciences (B.S) in economics.
Further, IIT Kanpur has realised that as our country is progressing, sound knowledge of economics is becoming more important and critical. Engineers need to work together with economists. For example, spectrum allocation cannot be done on technological basis alone, one needs a market mechanism to extract maximum possible benefit from the allocation for the society. The USA and the UK took help of economists to design market mechanism and were able to generate huge surpluses from their respective societies. ”
To add, many internationally renowned technical universities like Massachusetts Institute of Technology, California Institute of Technology, Virginia Technology, and Georgia Tech have a humanities, arts and social sciences department which runs programmes in economics, among other subjects. These are offered for undergraduate, masters and doctoral studies.
How is Economics at IIT Kanpur as compared to other social sciences institutes?
Undoubtedly, you may have come across people arguing about why to take Economics at IITs when you have other specialised Arts and commerce institutes offering Economics for Bachelor students.Firstly, the Economics program at IIT Kanpur is of 4 years which is today’s need and is followed by other countries. However, most of the other Arts and Commerce institutes offer a 3 year bachelor’s program in Economics. Secondly, Economics in IIT Kanpur is more or less treated like a science discipline.
The curriculum is highly mathematically oriented and emphasis is given on learning various statistical tools and techniques which are necessarily required in the area of Economics. Moreover, the course structure at IIT Kanpur is designed in such a manner that Economics students are substantially exposed to basic engineering problems which in turn immensely helps the students in emerging as efficient and better analysts and consultants.
Is B.S different from B.tech?
A common misconception people have is that a B.tech degree from an IIT has greater value than a B.S degree. But the fact is that there is no sort of discrimination on any ground be it inside the IIT system or outside. IIT Kanpur offers B.S degree for Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, and for Economics. Many renowned International universities also offer B.S degree in Economics. Your B.S degree is equally acceptable in India and at international level as compared to a B.tech degree. Coming to the market/industry scenario, the demand for Economics graduates is on the rise and the career opportunities are really good. If you have the aptitude the company wants, it doesn’t matter to them whether you are a B.tech or a B.S. holder!
Course structure:
The UG academic curriculum of IIT Kanpur is very flexible so as to give students the freedom to pursue their interests through courses from various departments.
In first year,
the courses taught are the same for students of all branches. They are basically introductory courses to all departments at IIT Kanpur, so you will learn linear algebra & calculus in Mathematics, mechanics & electromagnetics in Physics, life sciences & genetics in Biology, Engineering Graphics, Organic & Physical Chemistry, introductory C programming, one course from Humanities & Social Sciences (either from Literature, Sociology, Psychology, Art, or Philosophy) as well as an introductory course to Economics.
In second year,
you have four compulsory Economics courses- Level 1 Microeconomics, Level 1 Macroeconomics, Introduction to Mathematical Economics, and Applied Probability & Statistics. Along with these there are again common compulsory courses which all second year UG students have to do- Introduction to Electronics and Manufacturing Processes. You also have the option of taking open electives (courses from any other department that you like or find interesting) and department electives starting this year.
In third and fourth year,
you complete the core courses of Econometrics (crucial course covering statistics from basics to advanced which you need to know for data analysis), Development Economics, Level 2 Microeconomics & Macroeconomics, Industrial Economics, International Trade & Finance, and Indian Economic Problems. Apart from these, there are numerous departmental electives to choose from- Applied Game Theory, Bayesian data analysis, Introduction to Derivative Pricing, Economic Growth Theory & Practice, Economic Analysis of Law, Production Economics, Monetary Economics, Environmental Economics among others. You learn to use softwares such as MATLAB, Stata, EViews and languages such as R for working with data in academic projects (there is an option of taking up a research project under a professor as an alternative to an elective) or course assignments. Students are required to complete certain number of open electives, department electives, HSS courses, and engineering science electives in their four years of study.
One thing different about the Economics curriculum as compared to other engineering branches is that it involves relatively less lab work. So Economics students have more time than students from other branches in their third and fourth year to learn skills & tools beyond the regular coursework, be involved in various clubs, hobby groups or sports at IITK, and enhance their profile. Also, this helps in preparing for other competitive exams like UPSC, CAT or preparing for placements. One can also give more time to research projects. All in all, you can see that the curriculum gives the students exposure to very varied fields so that they can explore their interests. Many opt for a minor degree in some other discipline such as Mathematics, Computer Science, or Industrial and Management Engineering to get experience in those fields (depending on what they want to pursue in future).
Placement scenario:
To be frank, no IIT can guarantee or has ever achieved 100% placement. Please do not make the decision of opting for a particular branch based on its placement statistics; trust us when we say that where you get placed depends majorly on individual effort (the level of preparation for tests and interviews, the kind of courses and projects you take up) and not so much on the branch. Excluding core chemical/civil/electrical engineering companies, such as HUL & ITC which do have branch restrictions, “non-core” companies open their shortlisting process for most branches, since it is the aptitude that matters and not the branch. Few companies are open exclusively for Economics students, which means that we have to compete with students across branches for placements/internships. The placement is decent compared to other departments and as mentioned earlier, companies do not differentiate between a B.tech and a B.S. degree if you fit the skillset needed for their profile.
Having a good understanding of Economics, in particular econometrics, helps a lot as the typical job interviewer for a non-core company does expect you to have more knowledge in that field than an engineering student.Students from Economics majorly get placed in Analytics (such as EXL, Walmart Labs, American Express, Capital One), Consultancy (such as Ernst & Young, PwC US Advisory, McKinsey & Company, Boston Consulting Group) and Finance (such as Credit Suisse, Futures First, Citicorp services, Deutsche Bank, JP Morgan, Nomura, WorldQuant, M.H. Alshaya). Especially in the analytics sector, Economics students have an edge over other departments because they learn the skills needed to clear the tests and interviews along with their courses.
Future career prospects:
There lie immense opportunities after completing Bachelors/Masters in Economics. Our alumni and current students are performing extremely well and have left no stone unturned in almost every aspect be it corporate world, research or civil services. In this section, we note down the future career prospects that you have after completing a bachelor's in Economics.
Job opportunities:
As mentioned in the previous section, many of our alumni are currently working in renowned investment banking firms, consultancy services and analytics companies. An alumnus of Economics IIT Kanpur is also working in worldly renowned International Monetary Fund (IMF) and an alumna is working as a Research Assistant at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Moreover, a few of Economic graduates are currently working in renowned research labs such as J-PAL (MIT research lab) and Institute for Financial Management and Research (IFMR).
Higher studies:
There lie ample opportunities for higher studies in Economics. You can go for pursuing a Masters/PhD in reputed Indian and international universities. Recent graduates of Economics are currently enrolled in Master’s program at University of Columbia, Barcelona Graduate School of Economics, London Business School, and others. Some of them have already completed their masters from prestigious universities including MIT Sloan School of Management, Booth School of Business, London School of Economics, Yale University, Washington University, and Barcelona Graduate School of Economics. Our alumni have also secured full scholarship for pursuing PhD in institutions like University of Michigan, University of Toronto, Tilburg University, University of Illinois Urbana Champaign, University of California Irvine, University of California San Diego, and University of Wisconsin-Madison.
Even at Bachelor’s level, a good number of students have been awarded summer research fellowships through prestigious programs including MITACS, DAAD-WISE, University of Queensland Research Program and Indian Academy of Sciences. Apart from these, students have been able to grab academic internships during their undergraduate curriculum in universities like ETH Zurich, Technion- Israel Institute of Technology, Virginia Tech, University of Milano, Michigan State University, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, IIM Bangalore, Indian School of Business. Economics students have also done summer internships in the Reserve Bank of India.
Government Jobs and Civil Services:
Without any iota of doubt having an Economics background definitely gives you an edge for preparation of civil services examination, For instance, Indian Economic Service (IES) conducted by UPSC is an excellent choice for economics enthusiasts. Post qualifying this exam you are eligible for joining various Ministries/ Departments of government and can provide your inputs on all policy-related matters, and their economic implications. You can also go for the Civil Services examination taking Economics as one of your subjects. Economics at IIT Kanpur is really proud that one of our alumni has secured AIR 12 in the prestigious UPSC civil service examinations 2016. Adding to the achievements, one of our alumnus is currently Deputy Director at Ministry of Finance, Government of India.
Another cool thing about Economics@IITK is that the student body interaction (across batches and with faculty) is pretty good. The department strength is 40 and with only 40 students in a class, most of the professors do know you by name and there is a very healthy interaction with them.
In addition, ‘Econs’, the student body of Department of Economic Sciences at IIT Kanpur, is one of the most active student departmental body in campus and has been organising numerous events round the year for Economics students. Econs also acts as a bridge between professors and the student community and has successfully organised many leisure events like quizzes, sport activities, and discussions to bring together the professors and the students. It regularly conducts projects/case studies, discussion sessions, and workshops for Economics students.
We hope that this article answers most of your questions and helps you in making an informed decision. All the Best!
For any further queries please feel free to contact any of us:
Tanisha Mishra:
Email id:
Fb profile link:
Ayush Agrawal:
Email id:
Fb profile link:
P.S. We are thankful to our seniors Abhishek Jain and Shrenik Bohra for their inputs and suggestions.

A Helping Hand

“Two roads diverged in a wood,and I---

I took the one less travelled by,

And that has made all the difference”
-
Robert Frost


It is that time of the year again, when several of the bright minds of this country decide on their higher education prospects. The JEE Advanced results are out, and prospective IITians are busy fending the next important battle of their lives- “Branch vs Campus”. Having gone through the same predicament three years ago, I know the significance this question bears.
Okay, so let’s begin by first congratulating all the successful candidates for cracking arguably the toughest entrance exam that there is out there. All of you deserve a pat on the back, for what you have achieved.
The reason I’m writing this—to try and help the newbies make a better informed decision about what is going to be probably the four most important(and probably the more enjoyable) years of their lives. I’ve also had to make the same decision in the past and I believe that by passing on my experience, I’ll be able to help you out in my own small way.
So, let’s dive straight into it, shall we?
As most of us out there, my initial plan was to pick up CSE in any of the campuses, but while going through the list of choices available I happened to chance upon one that said,
BS Economics, IIT Kanpur
, and it has been one of the best decisions of my life. Now, before everyone starts crying foul and terming it as sacrilege to be teaching Economics in one of the premier technical institutions in the country,I’d like you to hear me out.
Why Economics?
People in India, have always tended to prefer Pure Sciences to Social Sciences. Hence, all of us have grown up with a bias programmed into our system of how Economics as a subject is second grade to Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics. Sadly, for people to have judged a subject as good or bad without trying it out speaks of the “herd mentality” we normally tend to go by.
Economics is a science too. It is the science of quantifying human choices subject to varied situations and hence predicting/forecasting them in similar situations. Why is this important? Because it gives you an insight into how it is that people tend to generally behave. It is an interesting subject to say the least.
Future Prospects

“So you took up Economics in a Technical institution, there is no scope for you.”
To people who tend to believe that this is true, let me assure you—
It Is Not.
As a holder of a degree that reads BS Economics, one is open to several prospects and opportunities. You could land a job in some of the most coveted financial institutions in the world, or move on to pursue higher education in fields such as Economics, Finance, Monetarism, etc. from premier educational institutions the world over. This is a matter of your own personal choices rather than a consequence of choosing a particular department.
Why Economics at IITK?
Economics at IITK is not your usual staple diet. It’s different. It’s different than what is taught in other institutes of the country,more prominent in the field. This is not meant to malign the course paradigms in other institutes, but is just a very important USP (Unique Selling Point) of BS Economics at IITK. Our course paradigm has a more mathematical approach to the entire subject. This means, we tend to concentrate more on the mathematical aspect of economic concepts rather than their more technical counterparts. This essentially is a deliberate practice for two primary reasons:-
(i) People who have just arrived having been subjected to long hours of practicing difficult, to say the least, Math questions and formulas, find it easier to relate with the subject rather than going through the more treaded path of
intuition
.
(ii) Mathematics has and always will have a very strong part to play in developing our understanding of almost anything under the Sun. Be it the Laws of Motion, Elementary Chemistry or Financial Markets.Here too, it helps in delving into and understanding concepts that initially do not seem to make sense. It
develops
the
intuition
that economists tend to focus on.
Another wondrous feature of this Program, is the great faculty that we have here. Some of the most easily approachable professors who love the subject, and who are always eager to lend a helping hand, not only academically but also providing guidance for the larger battles in life.
IIT Kanpur—the Campus
Finally, I’d like to draw your attention to the campus life at IIT Kanpur. After having cleared JEE, I believe most people tend to be more allured by the metros. But while that may be true, there is a certain serenity about the suburbs. A certain calm that tends to descend as well into
Life at IITK.
Independence-
It takes an authority to instill a sense of order, and an even greater one to do the same with the utmost autocracy of the people. Having spent two years here already, the most salient feature that has struck me about this campus is the Liberty it offers to all its students including the freshmen. From no compulsory attendance, to absence of a strict dress code, to having the largest bandwith in the country (No LAN Bans may I add), this campus gives you complete freedom to live your life your way.
Academic Flexibility-
The course paradigm here is one of the flexible ones in the country. From offering

7-8

electives to every UG student, according to his personal choices irrespective of departments, to the possibilities of pursuing minors and double majors in other departments simultaneously. There is also the potential of pursuing a UG Project under experienced Faculty and PhD students and Lab Assistants, providing a hands-on learning experience, especially to people who have ambitions to pursue further academic prowess.
Counselling Service-
Trust me, when I say that it feels good to have someone care about you. Arguably, the most important organization in the campus the Counselling Service (CS) is the body responsible to ease the
Initiation Process
of the freshmen into the campus. From having Student Guides (sophomores),to Assistant Coordinators (Third Year UGs) and Coordinators (Final Year UGs),they leave no stone unturned to make the students feel at home throughout their stay in campus. A synergistic body composed of students as well as experienced faculty and Counsellors, its contribution to life in campus is immense.
Other Activities-
There is a plethora of activities always going on in campus. From national cultural,sci-tech or sports festivals to various Clubs catering to a large variety of extra-curricular interests among the UG folk, IIT Kanpur has it all. From Robotics to Drama to Rubiks Cube, we have people excelling in every field and pursuing their interests side-by-side.
In conclusion, I’d only like to say that IIT Kanpur has been one of the fewer better decisions of my life. This is not just a campus, it’s a melting pot of several cultures and diversities that help you grow as an individual. You make friends for life here. This campus has taught me to be confident in my own abilities and at the same time to remain humble always. In retrospect, I see myself to have grown not only as a student, but as a friend and a person and given the chance I’d do it again.

Economics@IIT Kanpur

By: Snehil Patel, Shrenik Bohra & Abhishek Jain
Hello ! First things first ! If you are reading this post then congratulations are in order for you my friend, have cleared one of the most competitive exams in India. It is time to give yourself a pat on the back and look forward towards a new phase of life. Before we begin, let me introduce myself; I am Snehil, an undergraduate student who has just completed his 3rd year in IITK. With this article, I intend to contribute my 2 cents about the Economics program and life here at IITK in general. BUT, before we begin,
Please Note that the views expressed in this article are solely personal and have been written with an effort to provide you with maximum information about Economics@IITK with minimum biasedness.
So Let’s Begin!
What is Economics ?
Wikipedia defines it as ‘’ the social science that describes the factors that determine the production, distribution and consumption of goods and services” . To put it into more simpler terms: it is the study of demand and supply of goods and services. But, hey who cares about definitions right? Let us get to the practical understanding aspect of it. Ever wondered, what those statements by our RBI governor Dr. Raghuram Rajan mean? What do those GDP & inflation numbers that keep popping up in the newspaper every now & then mean? What is meant by ‘recession’?
A study of economics enables you to understand these questions and a host of other things. That being said economics is just not limited to understanding these basic questions In fact, this is where the journey of exploring economics begins. During the course of learning, one gets to explore right from the theoretical part to the applied part of the subject. Oh and for those who thought it to be an Arts/Commerce subject, well folks it is time to bust this myth. The following paragraphs would not only rectify this doubt but as well as discuss in detail about Economics@IITK.
Economics@IITK
Let us look at the curriculum of Economics program year by year :
Freshman Year :
The courses taught in the first year are compulsory for every UG student from each branch and are usually taught with a class size of approximately 400. The courses cover the basic engineering content of physics, chemistry, biology, mathematics & engineering graphics as well as courses in humanities (HSS) like psychology, english, sociology, linguistics, philosophy, arts, etc.(you get allotted one of these HSS courses based on a lottery).
Sophomore Year :
It is the year where you undertake basic courses of economics like Macroeconomics and Microeconomics which would enable you to get a basic knowledge of the subject and answer those questions related to GDP, inflation, recession, etc. listed above. Then another set of courses namely Mathematical Economics and Probability & Statistics equip you with basic tools necessary to tackle economics from a mathematical & technical perspective. Apart from these ‘departmental’ courses the students are expected to undertake some more compulsory courses (like their freshman year) as well as complete some ‘science electives’(don’t fret over this term, you will get to understand them once you are here)
Junior Undergraduate Year :
Entering into the 3rd year, you start getting getting absorbed into the department and undertake more number of core courses like development economics, microeconomics II, growth economics, behavioural economics, environmental economics and two other major core courses namely Econometrics I & II which expose you to introductory mathematics (mostly statistics ) that one needs to be know in order to back those theories in economics with numbers. These two courses in particular give you a glimpse into the world of data analysis while enabling you to work on softwares like MATLAB,EViews,STATA,etc while also giving you an opportunity to work on languages like R.
Undergraduate Year :
The fourth year is something that even I haven’t experienced as of now and hence whatever I write here should be considered as my expectations for the fourth year. So, basically the fourth year comprises of more advanced courses like a course on Trade(makes a lot of use of econometrics),Industrial economics, an advanced course on Macroeconomics and also a course on the Indian Economy. Apart from these you get to undertake a variety of departmental and open electives . Some of the departmental electives include courses on game theory, labour economics, financial econometrics ,etc.(‘electives’ are basically courses which you can take of your own choice ; again a suggestion don’t fret over this term, you will understand it once you come here).
A large chunk of your time is also invested in preparing for placements and/or preparing for other competitive exams like CAT, IAS, GRE, etc and also filling out applications for universities if you intend to continue your studies abroad. Now since, I have mentioned about things like GRE,CAT,placements lets us now move our attention to different career prospects after an individual has completed his/her economics degree :
How is the placement scenario at IITK for Economics student(s) ?
There is one thing that we should focus upon, not only for Economics branch but for all the branches. To be really outspoken, no IIT guarantees or has ever achieved 100% Placements. Now, with this reality in mind let us look at the placement scenario for economics.
Students from Economics majorly gets placed in analytics, consultancy and banking sector. The placement here is decent compared to other core engineering departments. The reasons behind good placements are as follows:
Curriculum
: As discussed above, the program curriculum has several courses like Probability and Statistics, Econometrics, Bayesian data analysis bolstering the statistics background. The content covered in these courses is in sync with industrial demand. Knowledge from these courses gives an unprecedented advantage to students of economics while appearing in analytics sector as compared to other students who have to prepare these things on their own. Also, basic economics courses helps in some way or another while preparing for case studies which are generally asked in consultancy interviews. Curriculum at IIT Kanpur is highly flexible. If you are interested to create a niche in a particular field, you can plan your courses well in advance and do a minor in that field(read branch).
Market Scenario:
The number of analytics/consultancy companies coming to recruitment is relatively higher as compared to other core engineering firms. This is the reason that a lot of students from other departments prepare for these profiles. The entire world is upbeat with emergence and advancement of Data Science, and the same is reflected in the job market opportunities for people with the requisite skill set. This adds as an advantage for economics students.
Profile Development:
The courses in economics are very lively and relatable as compared to other core engineering courses which keeps a student interested in that subject. Also the economics courses do not have labs(often considered time consuming) as compared to other departments. Hence, Economics students generally have more free time as compared to other students. This free time allows them to actively participate in extracurricular activities or learning new things, which in result enhances their personality immensely. You will find a lot of students from economics at senior leadership positions (be it Gymkhana or College Festivals or E-Cell or Sports). This makes the profile strong for a job candidate. However, it must be noted that having more free time is a double edged sword as students also waste away their time doing unproductive things.
Are the placements you get related to your grades ?
To answer this, I would like to quote a line said by one of our seniors when I entered IITK :
“Good Grades don’t guarantee you a desired job, but bad grades do guarantee you an undesired job/no job.”
The opinion on relation between grades and placements varies and is very subjective. However, that being said it is essential to note that getting good grades does open a lot of opportunities for you. It is up to the individual to convert those opportunities into a success story.
What if I do not wish to go for placements. What other career prospects am I looking at ?
The great thing about studying economics is the versatile nature of the subject and the diverse career prospects it has offer. Let us have a glimpse at some of them:
Research:
In terms of doing research, economics is one of the most sought after fields. Economics undergraduates @iitk who are interested in pursuing research go to universities like NYU,UIUC, UC Irvine,Yale,London School of Economics,Barcelona GSE to pursue their MS/Phd’s in economics. While being at IITK, one can develop his/her profile by working on undergraduate projects with professors and getting relevant research experience by interning at different universities both in India & abroad. You can also augment your research profile by doing elective courses in the Mathematics department which help a great deal in boosting your research profile and expand your mathematical toolkit for economics. For people those who are swayed by the world of statistics and data sciences, they can opt to do their masters in these fields. Infact, In India, the Indian Statistical Institutes have made a name for their statistics programs at the postgraduate level.
IITK also provides the flexibility to convert your BS degree into a BS + MS degree at the expense on an additional year in college. The students are required to complete a thesis in their fifth year which allows them to get an idea about research work . The additional one year also gives the students more time to think(this can both be a boon or bane) as to what they want to pursue ahead in their career while also making them a favourite during placements as companies sometimes prefer dual degree students over students with a single degree. However, going for a BS degree or dual degree is very subjective and varies from individual to individual.
Going for management :
Many students of economics opt to go for management degrees at the postgraduate level. The degrees most sought after are MBA(mostly from B-schools in USA & Europe), Masters in Management (mostly offered in European B-schools ) and PGDM (offered by IIMs). Having economics as a major subject makes it relatively easier for the students to get an entry in these programs as compared to their engineering counterparts. Moreover, relatively less academic load for economics students enables them to devote more time in preparing for CAT,GMAT and working on graduate school applications.
UPSC & Indian Economic Services :
Again economics student do get an edge here if they intend to prepare for UPSC or the Indian Economic Services exam. While UPSC allows economics to be taken as a minor subject, it is interesting to note that questions asked in both examinations stated above are primarily theoretical where the applicant is expected to have knowledge and facts related to the Indian economy. Again, relatively less academic load helps the student in utilising the free time to prepare for these exams provided they are serious about it.
Other opportunities :
Apart from the opportunities mentioned above students also leverage their economics degree to enter into the field of policy making by working with think tanks like PRS,CPR,CSDS to name a few. Some of the students have also gone on to work with organisations like World Bank, IMF, etc while some have opted for PG courses in public administration , PPE(Philosophy, Politics, Economics),etc.
Before ending this article, an additional thing that I would like to draw your attention is to that being in an IIT exposes you to such different fields that you might end up doing something that is not even remotely related to your branch.For example, one of my friend plans to take up film making as a career option while another senior of mine is working with one of the top political parties of India . Studying in an IIT instills in you a confidence that helps you in dealing with a phenomenon called “Life Ahead” with maximum efficiency. Hope you enjoy your stay while studying at one of the premier institutes of India. :)
This article could not have been completed without generous contribution in content from my friends Shrenik & Abhishek . For any further queries please feel free to write to me on snehilp25@gmail.com. You can also reach out to Abhishek & Shrenik on abhishekjain2211@gmail.com & bohrashrenik@gmail.com respectively.
EDIT 1: Corrected some typos and rephrased certain sentences.

Economics at IITK ~ by, Pushp Toshniwal

Post on @Quora by @pushptoshniwal: Economics at IITK

Electrical Engineering at IITK

Hi there, soon-to-be-IITian!
Congratulations for doing wonderfully in the much hyped JEE Mains and Advanced! A two year journey has ended, in great glory and celebrations, while a 4 year long journey awaits you, which will be above all your expectations, take my word!
I am Rishika Agarwal, undergraduate student at IITK, pursuing a major in Electrical Engineering, with minor in Computer Science and Engineering ( Artificial Intelligence). I have completed 3 years of my B.Tech program, which gives me a decent amount of experience to share with you guys. Here I am penning down my personal views about my college and my department, in particular. While opinions are bound to be subjective, I'll try my best to make this as objective as possible, free from biases.
So this is the phase when you are utterly confused as to which college and which branch to choose. Most of you do not have much knowledge about any specific department and often choose your department on the basis of your JEE rank. You would be, in all probability, having a bias towards CSE, as it seems to be the highly sought after branch, with maximum number of top rankers grabbing it.
I too faced these and a few other biases while choosing my college and department. I chose Mechanical Engineering, as that was the best (according to the irrational hierarchy of departments the society has set!) I could get here, and besides I had no strong inclination towards any other department then. I did have a soft corner for CSE though, as most of us have, because coding is probably the only thing we know for real from our school days. And having been wizards at Java or C, we all feel coding is just the thing for us!
Anyways, so I came to IITK to pursue my undergraduate studies in Mechanical Engineering. In our first year we did many courses, one of which was Engineering Drawing. I found the course very difficult and unappealing to me. I had a hard time drawing the simplest of ellipses! That was one course which left me wondering if I was visually challenged! So, I kind of got an idea that I might not enjoy myself much in Mechanical Engineering, which deals with a decent amount of perceptual visualization and drawing. By the end of my first year, I had a decent CPI, so I applied for a branch change into Electrical Engineering (and luckily got it!) I am very happy and satisfied with my choice, as I am thoroughly enjoying most of the courses of my department. Had I not been lucky enough to get a branch change, I might have grown to like my former department too, but I have no regrets for having abandoned that road.
Speaking broadly, IITK is a great place to be at! The amount of freedom it gives to its students is certainly unparalleled. You will never be nagged by your hostel watchman for entering at 2:00 am! There are many such liberties which the institute grants you, since it believes in your ability to make rational judgements.
Then, there are
excellent sports facilities
in the campus. Lavish courts, sufficient equipments, and motivating coaches.. A result of which can be gauged by our commendable performance in INTER IIT sports meet since the last 2 years.
Not to forget, the
administrative freedom
and rights of the student body. The Student’s Gymkhana is completely run by students, and has the power to make any changes for the well being of the institute.
That little peak would have given you an idea of how things go about at IITK.
Now, let me tell you more about the academic details of Electrical Engineering:
Electrical Engineering at IITK:
The courses:
During your first year, you will not be doing any department courses (this is true for all the departments), meaning all the courses you will do , will be common for the entire batch, whatever the department maybe.
You will be doing courses like Engineering Drawing , Introdcution to Programming, Linear Algebra, Electrodynamics, Mechanics, etc.
These will be the basic foundational courses of engineering, which are more or less fundamental to all departments.
Second year
:
This is when you will start getting a flavour of your department! In the third semester you will do courses like Introduction to Electronics,wherein you will learn about the basic principles and the working of different electronic devices which are the building blocks of all the electronic chips and equipments. You will also be exposed to basic Signal Processing, Control Systems, and Power Electronics.
By the end of your second year, you will get a decent amount of exposure to your department. Basically, you will have a knowledge of the broad fields of research/development in Electrical Engineering.
Third year of EE is much more rigorous and challenging. Certainly not a cakewalk for most! This is mainly because the courses are more advanced, as they provide more in-depth knowledge of specific domains. (Many of the third year courses are Departmental Electives, ie, you choose the courses, based on which field you want to explore further). There are 2 compulsary labs, to give you hands-on experience of all that you learn in your courses. Although exhausting, the labs do give you a nice flavour of designing complex maze-like circuits, implementing small tasks using microprocessors, microcontrollers, and yes, the popular job of “starting a motor” :P
I think it would be a good idea to list down the
broad fields of EE
, and give a brief description of each, and its applications:
Signal Processing
- This involves Image Processing, Acoustic Signal Processing and the like. Basically, it involves different algorithms and filter design techniques for extracting relevant information from raw signals of different forms. Its applications are diverse, for eg Speech Recognition, Video Compression, and many more. The most fancy application of SP, which fascinates me to the core is Brain Computer Interface - interpreting the brain signals and using it to perform any task.
Communication Systems
- This deals with the different technologies and components of communication systems - The receiver, base stations, channel, etc. The mysteriously complicated ways in which your radios and phones work is revealed to you! There is huge potential for wireless communication today, with the whole 4G and 5G concepts trending as the next generation communication technology!
Microelectronics
- This is a pretty exciting field, with a lot of scope for innovation in terms of increasing the efficiency of the devices. Work in this field ranges from pure quantum physics, to VLSI (Very Large Scale Integration). The semiconductor industry is nothing but millions of microelctronic devices embedded into a single chip! Make the chip smaller, cheaper, and more efficient, and the silicon valley awaits you in all its grandeur and with badass money! ;)
Power Systems
- This is the pure Electrical Engineering portion. It deals with Motors, Generators, Transformers, Transmission lines, etc.. Basically, whatever powers your house, or your city comes under this field. Despite being a relatively less exciting field of EE, the huge demand for efficient methods of power generation and transmission, and utilization of alternative forms of energy eternalizes the charm of Power Systems!
IIT Kanpur has some excellent research labs and faculties, in each of these areas. Students can explore their interests by doing Under graduate Projects/course projects/summer projects with professors, or under clubs like Electronics Club, Robotics Club and Programming Club, which are quite active, and work on exciting projects every year.
To add to the charm, IIT Kanpur, in collaboration with the Make in India campaign, inaugurated the
Flexible Electronics (FlexE) Lab
in 2014, which has state of the art facilities for the design and manufacturing of flexible electronic equipments. (for more info head here :
)
That was what I had to say about EE at IITK specifically. For further details, you can refer to
.
The following post by Yash Shahi, provides good insight on what’s common between EE and other departments, and also about the most “sought-after” Placements :P.
Perhaps some general info about the course undergraduate structure would also come handy here :
Besides the compulsory department courses, UG course structure includes
Open Electives and Department Electives
. Under the former category, you are eligible to take up any course of your choice, from any department, provided : 1. your timetable can accommodate the course. 2. You have completed any prerequisite courses required for the course of your choice.
Moreover, there’s provision to do a
minor/major
in a department of your choice (other than your own department). For a minor, you do some 3–4 courses of the particular field you are minoring in; A minor is completed in the normal 4 year B.Tech duration. A dual major requires you to do almost all the courses of the the other department you are majoring in, so it is completed in 5 years, and it earns you a BTech in both the departments (your current one, and the one you are majoring in.) These options provide a good amount of flexibility to the students in campus.
Now for some pep-talk.. These are some points I think you should know, before you sit down to decide your department:
First of all , I would like to emphasize the fact that irrespective of your branch, the stuff you learn in your UG programme is approximately 60% same for all.
UG programme primarily introduces you to engineering, the kind of thought process which is needed of you, the skills which an engineer should have, etc.
There is a lot of flexibility in the courses you can take up, irrespective of your department. So, if 2 years down the line, you realize that you are more interested in a dep XYZ, rather than your own department ABC, you can take up courses of that department, and explore your interest in it.
So, you don’t need to go all nuts, if you are clueless as to which department is the one for you! You will discover it during your journey here, if not now.
But that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t put any thought at all, into choosing your department! Its always better to have a broad idea of all the departments, and take a call. You can see what kind of courses will be taught to you, what will be the potential applications of your knowledge, and your future prospects.
These few criteria can help you make a decent choice as of now.
Hope you make wise decisions, and if you happen to choose IITK, I assure you a rich learning experience and a memorable college life!
RISHIKA AGARWAL
Senior Undergraduate,
Electrical Engineering

A different take on Electrical Engineering@IITK

Hi folks!
Hearty congratulations on cracking the JEE Mains and Advanced. The JEE counselling period is around and you must be busy figuring out the order of choices and what would be the best for you. So here is something that would be of help to those who are thinking about pursuing Electrical Engineering at IIT Kanpur and want to understand what Electrical Engineering is.
A few things before we proceed any further. First, introductions are in order. I am Yash Shahi, final year Dual Degree student in the Department of Electrical Engineering. Second, while Rishika Agarwal has very well covered up the academic system and reasons for choosing IITK, my post will be more focussed on “Why EE?”. I will try to paint a picture of what EE is all about, a picture that you will hopefully be able to appreciate based on your life experiences till date, and decide if you are interested in what EE has to offer. And lastly, please go through the following posts to know what makes IIT Kanpur stand apart from the rest, and many other important details about our department, which I choose not to repeat here.
1) Electrical Engineering at IIT Kanpur by Anshul Rai. (
)
2) Electrical Engineering at IITK by Rishika Agarwal. (
)
You can also read other blog posts under #thatsiitk to know what makes our institute unique and all the more exciting.
Electrical Engineering is a very broad discipline, with many sub-disciplines (referred to as Specializations). You will be surprised to know that the 12th class NCERT Physics textbook offers a glimpse of some of these specializations, as you will see soon. The EE curriculum at IITK is structured such that:
You will have a background in each of the specializations, so that you can comfortably build upon whichever of them you are interested in.
You will get hands-on practical experience in these specializations, to supplement the theoretical exposition in the lectures.
You can explore other fields of science, engineering or management through electives, thereby making your education interdisciplinary. You can take up courses from other departments on topics they have in common with EE, to get a new perspective on those topics.
You get a more complete education, through courses in humanities and social sciences.
Specializations

1)
Microelectronics, VLSI and Display Technologies
Microelectronics and VLSI is concerned with electronic devices at micrometer scale or lower and how you integrate these devices to make large-scale complex circuits so compact that they fit on a finger-nail sized microchip. You have already dealt with linear devices like the resistor, capacitor and inductor. To this mix are added non-linear devices like diodes and transistors.
a. We will see how Physics explains the working of these devices, and derive their current-voltage relations from the basic principles, with the aid of quantum mechanics.
b. Next, we will develop models for these devices that simplify circuit analysis. Using these devices, we make circuits of great utility, both analog and digital.
c. On the analog side, we have amplifiers. On the digital side, we will see how transistors are combined to make logic gates, arithmetic logic circuits like adders, multipliers etc. and memory units like RAM and ROM.
d. And finally, how all these circuits can be put together to make a complete microprocessor. We can understand this both in terms of architecture as well as the fabrication processes that go into making such small circuits.

Solar Cells also come under this specialization. It is studied in the course of device physics (point a), but it had to be stated separately in order to avoid breaking the flow of the above points.

Display Technologies is about how you combine light-emitting elements into a matrix that can be used as a display. You must have heard how display manufacturers talk about display sizes in “pixels”. What these pixels are made of, and how these are illuminated to show the pictures and videos: such questions come under the purview of Display Technologies.

You can trace back this specialization to Chapter 14 of the Class 12th NCERT textbook (
) on Semiconductor Electronics. In case you read that chapter, and it left you all confused or curious, EE@IITK is the place to be at.
2)
Signal Processing and Communications
Signals are a part and parcel of human existence, thanks to our senses of vision, hearing and touch. In this era of connectivity, it is of crucial importance to record, store and transmit these signals in a compact and efficient manner. The analog signals from Nature have to be converted to digital format for convenient storage, and reconstructed into analog form once received. Further, we require filtering processes to remove unnecessary frequency components and that requires the design of appropriate filters. Is it possible to do the analog-digital-analog conversion without any loss of information? And how do we find the “frequency content” of signals, so that we can decide what to remove and what to keep. Signal processing answers all these questions and the ways to achieve whatever has been stated above. Ever wondered how does Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) actually work? Or how you identify objects and faces in images? Multimedia processing (Image, Video and Speech processing) lets you explore these areas.
Communication systems, as the name suggests, is related to transmission and reception of signals. Today, there are thousands of devices that are communicating simultaneously at a certain place, and yet, no device can “overhear” another communication. How do we stop multiple communications from interfering with one another? You encounter different networks like 2G, 3G and 4G. What makes one faster than the other? And then there is random noise that can enter your communication systems, and introduce errors in the message. How do we detect, estimate and correct such errors at the receiver side? We will try to answer these questions in this sub-specialization. We will deal with both analog and digital communication systems, see why encoding and decoding are important and how it is done as a part of Information and Coding theory and also talk about wireless communications and what makes it more challenging. Chapter 15 titled “Communication Systems” of the 12th Class NCERT Physics textbook (
) will serve as a good introduction to this field.
3)
Power Engineering
Power Engineering has two components: Power Systems and Power Electronics. Power Systems deals with the generation, transmission and utilization of electric power. We study about Electrical Machines required at different stages viz. generators, transformers and motors and their circuit models that can be used for circuit analysis. We move on to see how the generated power is transmitted over hundreds of kilometres through transmission lines (Transmission lines are NOT as simple as resistive wires, there is much more to them). We see how these transmission lines interconnect to form a huge complex network, called the power grid, and the challenges associated with the management of power in these grids to avoid “grid failure” or blackouts in simple terms. There is an increasing need to improve this management, in order to reduce losses and make power systems more stable and optimized. And great work is going on to do so, especially with the advent of the idea of Smart Grids.
Power Electronics deals with the electronics required at different stages in the power system. These differ from conventional electronics in that they have to operate at very high voltages. There are AC to DC converters, voltage regulators to smooth out fluctuations, compensators and many such electronic devices of interest in this subject area. Power generation from renewable resources is gaining importance now-a-days, and given the inability of many to supply uninterrupted power at a constant voltage, advances in Power Electronics are much in need so that such green energy resources can be assimilated well into our power systems.
4)
Control and Automation
Let me introduce this specialization with an example. You must have encountered water pumps used in households to pump underground water. When you switch on that pump, you are giving it an instantaneous voltage jump as input. However, it takes a few seconds for the pump to attain full speed (the output). Now someone can desire the pump to achieve its full speed faster. One way would be to study the motor, find what factors contribute to motor speed, suitably modify them and design a NEW motor that achieves full speed faster. But there is another cool way to do this. Rather than altering the motor, what if I design a new system and externally connect it with the original motor to achieve the same objective. This external system is called the controller, and Control and Automation deals with the design of controllers to achieve the desired function. You can design controllers for other purposes as well, such as making the motor speed more stable in the face of input and load fluctuations.
Control Systems have immense applications. You talk about automation, and control systems come into the picture. They are used in anti-braking systems of automobiles, read-write head of your disk-drives, robotic manufacturing assembly lines. Hell, they can make an aerodynamically unstable aircraft, fly! (google “F-16 fly-by-wire”) To conclude, search “inverted pendulum control system” on Youtube and see what amazing things control systems can do.
5)
RF, Microwaves and Photonics
This specialization starts with a study of Maxwell’s Electromagnetic Theory, and using it to understand the propagation of electromagnetic (EM) waves through different media, along with reflection and refraction. Electromagnetic waves are not transmitted only on wires, and we study other modes of transmitting EM waves like wave guides and cavity resonators. Post-graduate courses later build upon these and take up topics like:
a. Fibre Optics, and how communication networks made out of these optical fibres work.
b. Lasers, their production, properties and applications.
c. Radars, antenna and other radiating systems.
d. Microwaves and Radio-frequency circuits.
e. Computational approach to Electromagnetics.
What’s common between us and what other departments do?
Electrical Engineering is, directly or indirectly, linked with almost every other department. Here is what we share in common with some of them (Alphabetical order, no CSE bias intended):
Computer Science and Engineering:
While EE takes you all the way to the basic building blocks of computers viz. gates, arithmetic logic and memory units, CSE takes off from there through the topic of Computer Architecture. Image Processing in EE and Computer Vision in CSE are quite related topics. And so is the topic of Networks, taught in both EE and CSE, but approached differently. Also, since you’d be required to do a good amount of coding in many of above fields, a good understanding of Data Structures and Algorithms comes in handy. In fact, EE and CSE are linked in so many ways that foreign universities often have a unified EECS department rather than EE and CSE separately. It is separate here though (Not everyone is interested in CSE ;) ). Still, if you want to go for the EECS approach, you can go for a Dual Major later, grades, interest and courage permitting.
Material Sciences and Engineering:
Semiconductor devices are of common interest to both EE and MSE. Materials play a crucial role whenever it comes to machines and devices, let them be diodes, high voltage devices, microwave ICs, optical fibres, generators or any field where material properties are of importance.
Mathematics and Statistics:

The specialization of “Signal Processing and Communications” draws heavily on the mathematical fields of Linear Algebra, Probability, Stochastic Processes and Optimization (Maths geeks, get happy!). Personally, I found Information Theory pretty challenging in terms of mathematical rigour. Other than that, differential equations are the part and parcel of most other specializations.
Mechanical Engineering:
While Power Systems in EE has much to do with the distribution and end usage of electrical power, ME focuses on the generation of power in their area of Energy Systems. Their interest lies in efficient power generation by using principles from Thermal and Fluid Engineering. Controls are another place where EE and ME have a common interface, as it plays important role in areas such as Manufacturing and Mechatronics.
Physics:
Physics has profound influence in Electrical Engineering. The specialization of RF, Photonics and Microwaves has foundations in the theory of Electromagnetism, and can be seen as its “applications” field. Further, concepts in quantum mechanics and thermodynamics help explain electron transport mechanisms in semiconductor devices, and finally arrive at theoretical expressions of their current-voltage behaviour.
For the sake of saving some reading effort (What!!!), I am limiting this topic here. Readers can comment on links with other departments below if they wish to.
Research
A good deal of quality research is ongoing under the great faculty that our department has. (Consider this one: A 133 crore, first of its kind, flexible electronics centre is coming up here, where it is expected that research on flexible electronics will take place in collaboration with industry. Source:
). Some research groups work in collaboration with other departments, although there is a long way to go if our research has to be called interdisciplinary in the true sense of the term. You can check up our department website (
) and the webpages of our faculty members to have a glimpse of their research work. You can get some good research experience while working on undergraduate projects as well as during summer programmes like SURGE. However, it’s difficult that you get started with research work in the initial period because you need to have at least some background in the specialization areas of the faculty, and that requires courses to be done. But there will be enough opportunities later that you can develop your profile if you are planning to go for higher studies.
Placements
While placements are highly dependent on the conditions prevalent in the economy at the time you are sitting for them, I can safely say that whatever you learn till the placements will give you much options to go for. Your mathematical exposure will be advantageous in banking and analyst profiles, the EE knowledge will come in handy for core electrical companies and IITK provides you more than enough opportunities if you want to develop yourself for other non-core profiles, such as those of a managerial nature.
IMPORTANT NOTE
While I have said much about what all the specializations are about, you should keep in mind that it’s not as if once you do the courses, you will be able to make the next advanced microprocessor, the controls of the next ISRO mission, bring about the next smart-grid revolution or make the next battery system of Tesla Motors. Relax! Learning technology takes a lot of time and patience, and this is your first step in the world of engineering. First year completed, and you would have seen nothing of EE (and you would come armed with your slippers asking me, “Where is all that EE you talked about! Where is it!!”) In fact, at the end of your undergraduate education, you will realize that you just touched upon the basics of each specialization, and that you will need to take the next step to delve deeper into what interests you. That next step could be in the form of a job in the core EE industry, post-graduation, etc. (As an aspiring engineer though, you never wait for “the next step” to learn something. You want to make something, you don’t wait for the right time to come: you simply learn, make the thing and move ahead). And somehow if you realize later that EE is not your cup of tea, your experience at IITK will still be transforming, memorable and a defining one.
Congratulations if you lasted till this point! If you read it all, you have one good thing that will come handy in EE: patience. Best of luck for your future :)

Mechanical Engineering at IITK: Some FAQts

Hello to-be-IITians,
Many congratulations on clearing one of the toughest exams on the planet. You’ve surely made your friends and family proud and you deserve all the praise that is being showered on you. Your N years of intense hard work have finally culminated in this achievement and you’ll soon realize that those countless all-nighters, study weekends and umpteen sacrifices were really worth it. From now onwards, being an IITian would be a part of your identity and this comes with countless ups.

But within days of the respite of JEE getting over, you have been handed the task of choosing a branch and an IIT for yourself. This is a tough decision and it’s totally fine if you’re freaking out. Talk to as many people as possible, try to find out information on the web, do all it takes but make an informed decision for this decision is probably the most important one you’ve made yet.

I write this note to do my bit in helping you make a better decision.
I recently completed my third year as a Mechanical Engineer in IIT Kanpur this April. The ride has been exhilarating and very enlightening, but before joining this department I was quite apprehensive and had a lot of queries. Now that I’ve been three years into this, I sort of know answers to a good amount of them.

So, I thought it’d be a good idea to present this in a Q&A format. I’ve also added some questions that I’ve frequently come across. The FAQs are primarily Mechanical Engineering (ME) related but I’ve included some general ones as well.
Some FAQs specific to ME.

Q. What is mechanical engineering (ME) all about?
Ans.
Ask google and you’ll get all kind of fancy definitions. But from what I’ve learnt in these 3 years, the essence of ME is how to get things done by machines. That includes a lot of aspects, some of which are: what materials should be used, what the design should be, how should the heat transfer be regulated, how should the friction experienced due to fluids be minimized, what components should be used, how should the manufacturing be done and so on. ME is all about making our lives simpler, which is inherent to any branch of engineering I suppose.
Q. What all are mechanical engineers taught?

Ans.
Students of all disciplines are taught certain core courses (compulsory courses for all), in fact, in your first year all the subjects would be core and you won’t have any departmental course. These would include courses on real analysis, linear algebra, biology, engineering drawing, electrodynamics, classical mechanics and others. From second year onwards, you’ll have a mix of core courses and departmental courses. In the departmental courses you’ll be taught courses on materials, heat, fluid mechanics, manufacturing, design, energy. And ya, you’ll have to do 5 HSS (humanities and social sciences) courses. They’ll be like a breath of fresh air among all your engineering courses. In addition to this, there are departmental electives (courses you can choose from your departmental template) and open electives (courses you can choose from any department!)
Q. What kind of jobs can a mechanical engineer do?
Ans.
I know people would ask you not to worry about jobs right now saying that there’s a lot of time to figure those things out and they’re right. But I also think it’s not a bad idea to have the idea of what all could you be doing at the back of your mind while choosing the branch. With that said, post-graduation, you can either go for a job or higher studies. Jobs can broadly be classified as core engineering jobs, techno-managerial jobs and non core. Core jobs require you to put your engineering skills into use with recruitments being done by companies like GE, Mitsubishi, TATA motors. Techno-managerial use both your engineering skills and management abilities and feature recruiters like HUL and ITC. Non core jobs can again be divided into the likes of analytics, consulting, finance and IT. This section has a lot of recruiters and a significant chunk of students go for non-core jobs.

But seriously though, don’t worry. Livelihood won’t be a problem. Do what you enjoy and if you don’t know what you enjoy, try to enjoy what you’re doing and the rest everything would fall in place. For higher studies, you’ll get the leverage of the IIT tag and if you’ve been a good academic performer, you’ll surely get into decent foreign universities and in exceptional cases, ivy league colleges.
Q. I’m not very strong physically. Can I be a good mechanical engineer?
Ans.
Sorry mate, in that case you won’t be able to do well in ME because you know, most IITians are six pack flaunting, well-built personifications of masculinity itself.

Come on, most of us are lanky, glass donning nerds who lost most of their school arm wrestling matches. Had strength been a pre-requisite for IIT admissions, it would have been a different story all together. So no, ME or any branch for that matter, does not require you to be “physically strong”.
But you would surely need some strength while you’ll be shifting your room luggage to the hostel store rooms. :D
Q. I am a girl and I am very apprehensive about joining ME as it’s a highly male dominated branch. What should I do?

Ans.
If that is the case, IITs are male dominated and you should be apprehensive about joining IITs too. The point is, the abundance of a particular gender should not be a deterrent for your passion pursuit. I’ve seen the recent trends of females avoiding ME, the reason being unfathomable to me but if you love machines, please go for it. It would be extremely sad if an irrational trend pushes you away from your passion.
Q. I want to make cars. Will that be taught in ME?
Ans.
Not exactly. But the science behind the parts and motion would be. Nevertheless, you can always join SAE and BAJA teams (I don’t know the specifics of what they do). They are an awesome bunch of people enthusiastic about different types of vehicles and have been doing great in the recent years.
Q. I hate drawing. I’ve heard that mechanical engineers do a lot of courses on “engineering drawings”. Is it true?

Ans.
If two is a lot of courses, then yes we do. Out of the two, one is actually a core compulsory course so even if you aren’t in ME, you’ll have to do it. I hated drawing and still hate it. That doesn’t stop me from enjoying ME at all!
Q. What if after taking ME, I realize I don’t want to do it?
Ans.
You can change your branch till the end of second year, which I think is a lot of time to gauge whether you like your branch or no. If you don’t or are unable to, you can still take courses of your interest as open electives or do a double major in a discipline of your choice.
Some general questions.
Q. Why should I choose Kanpur when Bombay>Delhi>Kanpur?
Ans.
When I was where you are now, I had also internalized this inequality. In fact, I held it true even in my first year. Basically, the basis for this inequality is the previous years’ opening rank. While I do agree that Bombay and Delhi do get edge at some front due to being metro cities, Kanpur makes up for at any many more fronts.

IIT Kanpur has one of the most flexible academic curriculum across IITs. You are allowed to convert your major degree into a dual degree till the end of the seventh semester in some branches! You can change your branch till the end of the second year. We also have provisions of dual majors (B.Tech in two disciplines in just 5 years) or if that’s too much for you, you can do a minor in a branch alongside your major.

The campus culture of IIT Kanpur is extremely vibrant and the amount of freedom that we enjoy is a rare thing in India. You’ll get a lot of resources on the campus culture if you do a google search.

Our professors are some of the most regarded researchers in the entire country and even worldwide.

IIT Kanpur has been famous for its academic rigour and research quality.
Brownie point: we have our own air strip and there’s an open elective in which you get to fly planes :D
There’s really a lot more to write “why Kanpur”, but I won’t be expanding more on that here. Read accounts of other IIT-K students to know more.
Q. I’ve heard Kanpur is academically very rigorous. Is it true?
Ans
. Sort of yes but from what I’ve observed, it also depends on what branch you’re in. But the rigour is not as overwhelming as projected. You guys have just given JEE. Rigour should be the last thing you should be worried about.
Q. I am quite exhausted from two years of studying everyday for 10-14 hours. I want to chill out now but also want to do well in IIT. How many hours should I study?

Ans.
If you attend all the classes and study for like an hour everyday, you’ll do great. Yes, life will be easier now. But trust me, most of the days you won’t even be touching your books and although I do the same, I seriously advise against it.
I hope this was a little useful, in either inching you a little towards ME or IIT-K, or taking you some other way . I would also strongly recommend you to read the notes of some other IIT-K students. We have this campaign called #thatsiitk to tell you guys about our institute. We have no personal gains out of this, but IIT-K is just so supercalifragilisticexpialidocious that we simply feel obligated to do this. Also, if you have any other queries, feel free to ping us.

Best wishes for the future ahead.

Mechanical Engineering at IIT Kanpur

Hi friends,
I am Pranav Vyas, fifth year student from Department of Mechanical Engineering at IITK. I was admitted into a four year B. Tech. program in 2012 but got it converted into a BT-MT dual degree in my fourth year.
Four years ago I was also going through the same painful process of choosing my branch of studies. I was interested in doing physics, but, as most of us do, I ended up filling the counselling form based on the general rank trend, and ended up getting IITK ME (Don’t do that in the first place, but if you end up doing it, don’t repent, as you will realize at some point of time that decisions are never wrong).
This article is a humble attempt to show how a mechanical engineer’s life transforms through the four years of stay.
The Four Years
The first year starts with a drastic cultural shock. The infinitude of opportunities provided by IITK allows any student to groom himself/herself the way he/she wants, be it cultural activities, sports or sci-tech. Competitions and club activities span throughout the year and are great learning opportunities for the curious ones. The course curriculum is same for all students which includes core courses in Physics, Maths, Chemistry (along with labs) and single modules in Biology, Computer Programming, Humanities and Engineering Design. Most of us spend our summers doing projects in various clubs or attending rigorous sports camps.
The empty slate starts to fill as the second year begins. Most of the students have already identified the places they wish to hangout, learn and enjoy. Many courses are still common to all branches like Electronics (logic, diodes, transistors, circuits), Manufacturing (Materials and Mechanical)(These include team projects), Humanities and Communication skills. The ME curriculum starts off with core courses like Thermodynamics, Fluid Mechanics (flow, stresses in fluids) , Solid Mechanics (stresses/strains in solids) , Dynamics of Rigid Bodies, Engineering Design (Drawings and mechanical elements), Electrical Engineering Intro (motors, currents, power) and Structure and Properties of Materials. These courses are supplemented with labs and some experiements are really interesting. Often these courses are conduted along with students from one or two other branches like Chemical and Aerospace Engineering. They form the backbone of the ME curriculum and provide a solid foundation for you to be able to design and create ‘anything’, a virtue of a mechanical engineer (often realised by students after joining college). During summers, many students stay in the campus to pursue research projects in various labs, or projects under various clubs. A few go out to pursue internships in other research institutes and core and non-core companies.
By the beginning of the third year, most of the students, through their explorations in the past two years, figure out what they really wish to pursue ahead. The open environment at IITK hinders the least (although there is a lot of scope for improvement) with the choices students make. One of the most liberal elective system allows students to pursue courses of their choice from a vast variety. The fight for securing great internships begins early in September. Many students opt for non-core fields like finance, consulting and startups, a good number gets to go for core internships and less than fifteen percent opt for research internships. Many companies come for campus interviews, but only a rare few belong to the core sector (the prime reason being the state of manufacturing and machine design/research firms in our nation).
The course curriculum in third year provides greater depth through core engineering courses like Energy Systems (AC, refrigerator, IC engines, fuels), Theory of Mechanisms and Machines (linkages, mechanisms, their kinematics and dynamics), Advanced solid mechanics (stress, strain fields), Manufacturing Sciences (modelling the physics of manufac.), Design of Machine Elements (making a machine and ensuring it would work without failing), Heat and Mass transfer, and Vibration and Control (only control systems course in curriculum). These courses ensure you have enough analytical skills to analyze any design problem and take appropriate meaures to solve it. Three open electives in third year allow you to explore courses from any other department of your choice, which helps you prepare for your research or jobs.
The fourth year provides you a whole battery of electives, of which some must be taken from the department itself. There are a huge number of PG level courses which cover many specific research areas. Some students pursuing for job offers often do courses in Computer Science, Economics, Management, and Mathematics. But there are no specific courses to prepare engineers for core jobs, and I think that can be best learnt only while working with respective firms. Apart from the coursework, each student has to do an yearlong B. Tech. project which involves designing and manufacturing a working prototype. Currently open research problems are not allowed as BTP’s, but that should be modified in coming years.
The huge number of electives allows any student to aim for a minor degree (3–4 courses in other department), a double major degree (you get 2 majors with an additional year of stay), or a dual degree (BTech + MTech in five years) which is very beneficial for students aiming to pursue studies in other subjects post their stay at IITK. Hence, for students (and it often happens in IITs) not getting branches of their choice, or those who realise their interests later on, IITK allows them to carve their own path.
Job Opportunities
Core job opportunities include R&D or techno-managerial jobs in companies like Mahindra, Bajaj, Tata, General Electric, Bosch, Airbus, ITC, HUL, JSW, Mitsubishi etc. Although there are rare cases of students getting jobs in foreign countries, most of the jobs are offered in India. Also, many companies prefer dual degree students because of their depth and experience. Apart from these, many students opt for Public Sector Unit jobs through GATE exam and Engineering Services through IES exam.
The jobs offer a decent living with an average working duration. The salary hovers aroung an average package of 8–9 lakhs.
Apart from these, there are new exciting jobs coming from the startup sector focussing on manufacturing and robotics. With the push from Make in India campaign their number is only going to rise in near future.
Department and Research
The department has excellent Professors from a wide variety of reseach fields which can be broadly classified into these categories -
1. Solid Mechanics and Design
2. Fluid and Thermal Sciences
3. Manufacturing Sciences
4. Nuclear Science and Technology
5. Robotics
For getting an in depth information on researh areas you can explore this link-
Any problem involving the interaction of matter, ranging from performance of big machines like cars and aeroplanes to the hydrophobic properties of nano scale features on lotus leaf, hold scope for a mechanical engineer to apply his talents. In short, research in mechanical engineering covers a very broad spectrum, and is considered as a field comprising elements from many other fields. A mechanical engineer is often an all round resource person for multidisciplinary research.
A few other links to explore -
Department website -
FSAE and BAJA -
. (They make awesome cars for international and national competitions)
ROBOCON IITK -
(They make awesome robots)
Tinkering Lab -
(a lab to tinker with your ideas)
Apart from these, students are always welcome to approach any professor from any deartment with their ideas and they seldom hear a no. During my stay, I have worked in six labs from three departments Mechanical, Chemical and Biosciences. The professors have always welcomed my ideas and provided me with appropriate resources and guidance to conduct interdisciplinary research.
IITK community is one of kind, where students can let their ideas flourish with bare minimum restrictions and I am extremely fortunate to be a part of it.
Hope this article helps you make an informed choice.

Materials Science & Engineering - IIT Kanpur

Hi, future IITians! First of all, congratulations on clearing JEE. I know how tough it has been for some of you. Atleast, for me it was! Of course, you MUST relax, celebrate and enjoy this time, because the next 4 years of your life (I should be saying three, rather :\ ) will be a lot tougher.
No, I am not discouraging you all. It’s only because of the independence you will get (some of you might be getting it for the first time, I am sure. Rejoice!), the different kinds of people you will meet and some difficult decisions you will have to make that will make these 4 years memorable! Nothing to worry about. But besides celebrating, there is one more important decision of your life coming up that you must be thinking upon. Which IIT should I choose? And what should be my field of study?
To clear your doubts at this stage, I would like to give you a flavor of the life here at IITK. I would also like to tell you something about my department, Materials Science and Engineering, at IIT Kanpur. I hope it will help you make your decisions in a better way.

Life@IITK
Already thinking of becoming of a software engineer, aren’t you? Or a scientist? Or just dreaming to have loads of money after you pass out from this place? Relax. These 4 years might just change your thoughts completely.
The first thing that comes to my mind when I recall my last three years at IITK, is the huge amount of freedom that I got here. Just to give an example, attendance in MOST of the classes is not compulsory! You can study a subject the way you wish to. Attend a class if you enjoy it, or study from some book on your own. Equally good! This freedom gives people an opportunity to reconsider their field of interest and switch to it (called a Branch Change) if they feel like. You can do this at the end of your second, third and fourth semester. So nothing to worry about if something else grabs your interest when you come here. Of course, switching to some of the branches is quite competitive, which is why being good at studies (yes, I am talking about grades here, the sad part of it) in your first year will always be a bonus. But, this freedom gives you one more opportunity. Why not study less and try something new?
Whether it be sports, music, electronics or debating, there are a plethora of activities which you can explore while you are here (so many that your 4 years won’t be enough for them!). You can join the respective club(s) to try them out. You can learn from scratch in MOST of these clubs. In fact, there is so much to learn that you can take your interest to a whole new level: a new career opportunity! Studies (or Academics, rather) are not the only path to a successful career. I believe college life is about trying new things and finding out what you would love doing for the rest of your life. Thus, the freedom to explore different activities, to bring out the hidden talent in you, that even you might be unaware of, is the best part of the life at IITK. So don’t plan out your career from now on itself.
By the way, there are festivals like Udghosh (the sports festival), Antaragni (the cultural festival) and Techkriti (the techno-entrepreneurship festival) which you can enjoy here, as well.
MSE@IITK
First of all, how should you actually be deciding which department to choose? In my opinion: what interests you the most! Of course, some of you will have limited options due to your JEE ranks. But wait! Hang on to your interest for a little while (uh, three years, that is. But if you are really interested in something, it wouldn’t matter, right?) and you might just get an opportunity to convert to a Dual Major program (a unique feature of IITK academic system), where you can get two B.Tech. Degrees from two departments.
Now, what’s interesting in Materials Science and Engineering? A typical problem that material scientists/engineers tackle goes something like this: I want to make a product with such-and-such features/qualities. Which material should I choose to build it? But it’s not that easy to answer. Of course, if a similar product is already there in the market, similar materials can always be chosen. But what if the feature required is something completely different and you don’t have a familiar material for it. On this planet. Yet!
What happens next?
Simple: You create something new. That is the most beautiful part of materials science and engineering.
The whole idea of “creating something new” requires aspects of both, Science and Engineering, which a materials science student will have to study. It requires a knowledge of every field of science: physics, chemistry or biology; everything is studied by material scientists. It has applications in every field of engineering.
People are on the lookout for materials which can help them build artificial limbs. There are materials which can heal themselves after mechanical damage. There are materials which hate getting wet and dirty. (Imagine your sports shoes being made out of one of these. No need to wash them again and again!) There are materials which have properties that are controlled on the nanometer scale (about a hundred thousand times thinner than a strand of human hair), giving rise to the wonderful world of Nano-Technology & Nanomaterials. Materials are being discovered which can capture the energy released by the Sun, most efficiently. There are more wonderful materials like ferrofluids, a fluid that can be magnetized; materials which can change their shape when you shine light on them, or apply a magnetic field on them, or just dip them in hot water! There are challenging materials too, which are yet to be studied in a lot more detail: superconducting materials, which can help reduce energy losses (by one-hundred-percent!) when used at just the room temperature OR materials which can help us build “flexible electronic devices” (the truly bendable mobile phone) OR materials which can help you charge your mobile phone in a few seconds OR materials that can be used to build quantum computers (which are exponentially faster than current computers). Material findings have even reached the moon. Mining of elements like Helium-3, more abundant on the moon, can help us build nuclear reactors without any radioactive waste!
In all, materials science is a fascinating field which has no end, because of the variety of problems that keep on coming. But there are various challenges that you might face. Materials Science requires a good understanding of the concepts of all fields of science. This causes it to face a tough challenge from people of a core physics, chemistry or engineering background. It is difficult to master everything, as you can understand. For the same reason, many companies, which require material engineers equally, may sometimes prefer a person from a core engineering background. This is one reason why many students are discouraged. Many find other interests in non-core jobs, such as banking, finance, consultancy, software etc. I would say that is a part of life. It is never too late when you have finally found something that interests you. In fact, a positive aspect of the courses offered in MSE@IITK is that the coursework is fairly easy for most of the students. More freedom to explore other interests and fields! Or just study about those problems in materials science which interest you, the fascinating part of it.
To sum up, research in MSE@IITK is a wonderful experience. Core jobs might not be in plenty but Non-core jobs are. Academic workload is easy (The grading system at IITK must also be credited for this. It is very different from other IITs).
To help you decide a lot better, here are some topics which are covered in more detail in MSE@IITK, which you might have already studied in your JEE preparation days –
Physics – Momentum, Torque, Stress, Strain, Young’s Modulus, Elasticity, Surface Tension, Viscosity, Heat Conduction, Convection, Radiation, Thermodynamics, Electrostatics, Magnetism
Chemistry – Atoms, Molecules, Mole Concept, Atomic Structure, Quantum Chemistry, Electrochemistry, Solid State, Solutions, Inorganic Chemistry
Mathematics – Basic Mathematics is required in materials science. Although, some compulsory courses will be there in the first year (Beware! But they are common to all departments, anyways.)
I hope now you have got a good idea of the field MSE, and of IIT-Kanpur. And I hope this will help you in taking your decision of choosing the best department for you. You can visit the following websites for more –




Still, feel free to comment below or message me if you have ANY other confusion. In the end, you are soon going to be a part of a premier institute of the country. You have already done a lot of hard work. Everything would be just fine. :D Congratulations once again! :)

Material Science and Engineering @ IIT Kanpur ~ by Pankaj Kumar

(B.Tech-M.Tech Dual Degree student)
Hi prospective IITians! Congratulate yourself! You have walked the proverbial ‘
stair of swords’
. And you know the journey doesn't end here. You have to choose a still new path. And believe me ‘to choose’ is not an easy at this point. You would have a lot of doubts. And that is normal.
In order to facilitate an informed choice, I would like to unveil some of the peculiarities of the Department of materials science and engineering at IIT Kanpur (MSE@IITK). MSE@IITK has been revered as the one of the most contributing departments towards the overall ranking of the institute. Apart from the world-class facilities and labs, we enjoy the flexibility of the course curriculum; more liberal than most of the other departments.
The fact that the department is not that common to the engineering colleges as the other regular departments; alludes an unclear perspective (or uncertainty) of the prospects of choosing the same. This was true in my case as was for my batch mates. It starts due to the lack of availability of the right knowledge of facts and figures. I would therefore like to enlighten you of the breadth of the interdisciplinary department.
Research prospects
The department offers one of the most versatile and exhaustive areas of research namely; Biomaterials, Computational Materials Science, Process modelling, Electroceramics, Extractive Metallurgy, Flexible and Organic Electronic, Manufacturing Processes, Nanomaterials and Nanotechnology and Powder Metallurgy.
It was to my surprise that one can actually do a research project at the end of first year itself. The professors cooperate with the students and motivate them to explore the field of research. The fact that the department is interdisciplinary leaves the student a number of labs to try his hands on. You could have you own processed Graphene or Carbon Nano tubes sheets in the second year itself. And believe me, it feels awesome! There is a friend of mine who had fabricated a thin-film transistor under the guidance of professor involved in the Flexible and organic electronics group; the privilege even a masters student seldom receive in most of the prestigious institutes.
The department offers the opportunity of converting the B tech degree to Dual Degree for the research enthusiasts; the flexibility of taking the decision remains even till the end of 7th
semester (just before the placement season). In essence, I would maintain the department provides you ample opportunity to explore your field of interest, before deciding your career. You never know your interest. You explore yourself in the process. I can cite enough examples on request.
Placement Prospects
The flexibility in the terms of courses we select as open electives right from the fifth semester, lets you decide your personal career path(s). Though there are limited names for the core companies, the deserving ones have been placed rightly in the core companies like the Tata motors etc. You can always target a company and select your courses accordingly. I, for example, was more into the semiconductors and energy materials and have done four dedicated courses in the field; could apply comfortably to the companies like Global Foundries, Taiwan Semiconductors etc.
The non-core placements constitute the major section. You can build up your profile accordingly during the seven semesters. The courses are less demanding; leaves enough time for extra-curricular activities while maintaining a decent CGPA (mind it is important). The electives from the department of economics, MBA and CSE adds the perfect credentials for the most sought after companies like the PwC Diamond etc.
Cross department degree
IIT Kanpur allows you to go for a change of branch to other department (with the restrictions of minimum CGPA;
of course
). Or you can apply minors in the department of your interest. Apart from these, a double major program is always at your disposal.
In summary, MSE@IITK can lend you ample options for a life of your dream; be it research or otherwise.
All the best.

Materials Science and Engineering at IIT Kanpur

Hello folks!
Here I will touch up upon the various aspects of Materials Science and Engineering (MSE). MSE at IITK is a newer branch which includes but is not limited to Metallurgical Engineering. Materials Science, as I understand is a bridge between Physics (of materials, on nanoscale) and engineering streams like Mechanical, Biological and Electrical. A materials’ scientist or a materials engineer, strives to create and perfect materials that could perform in extreme conditions, or give improved efficiency in daily life. Advancement in technology, be it spacecrafts or chips inside our computers, sensors, laser, artificial limbs, anything to everything, has been done on the base laid by materials scientists. We don’t just look at structure of materials (as you might have read in solid states chemistry) we engineer it to our advantage. We study the behavior of materials in different conditions, we engineer their structure, we mix-and-match material to decide which is best for what application. Without research in materials the entire science and technology would come to standstill, as it is us, who take the real challenge of supplying the starting raw material. Imagine a prosthetic leg, which started a wooden leg without functionality, has now become completely functional polymer leg which allowed Oscar Pistorius (survivor of double-amputations) to compete able-bodied athletes. Materials Science has paved the way for flexible electronics (imagine bending your cell phone), biomaterials (stents, prosthetics, etc), and Nanomaterials and Nanotechnology. A material scientist gets a bit of everything. We make software for analyzing materials, we do computational analysis on materials, we make electronic devices, we make bio-materials (to be used inside the human body), we make and improve structural materials (including materials for aeroplane, space-shuttles), etc. In principal we touch every branch of science possible and give it something new and extra-ordinary to work on.
Recently MHRD introduced a PAN-IIT and IISc Bangalore program IMPRINT, in which IIT Kanpur is leading the way in Materials Science domain. This might be of interest for those looking for scope in MSE:
What do MSE students do during their under-graduate study?
Apart from taking up courses and giving endless quizzes and exams, students in general in IITK have an option of doing Under-Graduate Project (UGP) during which they get hands on experience of whatever they read in textbooks. We get to use advanced equipments and technology at par with any graduate or masters student here. We work on topics, and if we produce something new, we can get it published. Apart from this, during the summer break (which is 3 months long), students do an internship, either at companies or in universities across the globe.
Also, in addition to academics, IITK offers complete freedom to its students. We have a Student Gymkhana managed by the students which has various clubs and hobby groups. If you have a passion for something, we probably have a club for it. Search for Student Gymkhana IIT Kanpur, and you will know it. We plan, micro-manage and organize events (which we call festivals) whose budget runs in crores on our own. The academic load of a MSE student at IITK is relatively light, hence more freedom to indulge in extra-curricular activities, and work on self-development.
What do MSE students do after graduating?
We have endless options after graduation.
Core:
If MSE has been able to interest you, you go for core fields, but the only problem with this is that not many companies give core-jobs after B.Tech. but some which do include Tata Steel, Jindal Steel, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, etc. So, a few of us go on for higher studies (M.Tech or PhD) and then do core jobs. Many IITK MSE alumni are studying or have graduated from top-notch institutes like MIT, Harvard, etc. After this companies like Intel, Boeing, etc absorb you or you go on to become an independent scientist.
Non- Core:
If MSE is not what you were looking for, rest assured that you will not waste 4 years of your life stuck up in wrong field. Education at IITK is relatively free. You can choose the subjects that you want to study (apart from compulsory one’s which sadly you cannot escape). There are options of doing a Minor in another branch or a double Major (you graduate with Bachelor degree in two branches), which improve your career options. If not this, then a lot of investment banks and consulting companies like Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank, etc. come for placements. An option of doing an MBA or UPSC is always available.
Here is a link to sum-up MSE at IITK:
Hope this helps you decide in a better way. For any more information, feel free to contact me.

MATHEMATICS AND SCIENTIFIC COMPUTING AT IITK

Congratulations future IITians on your JEE Advance performance.
I am Shubham Prakash, a junior undergraduate in BS. Mathematics and Sc. Computing at IITK .
I would like to brief you all about the Mathematics and Sc. Computing Branch here.
First of all,how I landed in IITK-
Two years before,I was in same situation as yours, searching for the branches and institute which would be best for me.Since,I was fascinated with Mathematics and had a keen interest in computers ,I was confused between Maths and Computing branches of various IIT’s.Also,I was also selected for CMI and ISI, and I was in great heck. As fate would have it ,I landed here at IITK. I was happy that I landed a great place but had doubts regarding my branch.
About IITK-
I’ll focus on things unique to IIT Kanpur. The campus of IITK is much bigger than IITB and IITD even though all of them enroll about the same number of students. It’s only smaller than IITKGP however there are much more students enrolled there. We have an airstrip with WW2 gliders,Wind tunnels.Sports facilities are very good.We even have a wall climbing facility.Cultural fest ‘ANTRAGINI’ and Technical fest ‘TECHKRITI’ is worth waiting for

Secondly the academic flexibility is higher than any of the older IITS (IIT Gandhinagar exceeds Kanpur here). There are open electives and there’s no mandate to follow your template.

Branch Change policies are very flexible here.Institute tries to grants this privilege to as many students as possible under certain constraints.And this privilege is offered after 2nd,3rd and 4th semester.

Also,the institute provides an opportunity to pursue a Double Major or a Minor.
Also,if you have keen interest in your branch or any other branch, you can change your curriculum to dual degree.

IIT Kanpur believes in granting a lot of freedom to students. There are no Internet usage restrictions. You are free to roam around the campus 24*7. Men and Women are treated equally and like adults and there are no evil warden who want to ensure that people are in their rooms by bedtime.
About the Course -
It is a four year course. The curriculum provided by the institute is very flexible and open. One has ample opportunities to choose between a research oriented or a corporate career though not restricted to them. The department offers variety of courses from Abstract Mathematics to Applied Mathematics to Computer and Numerical Courses to Statistics.Since the course is offered by Mathematics Department there are more Maths courses than computer courses. Apart from this, one gets various department electives and 6 open electives which one can utilize to do courses of interest in a particular fields like Computer Science courses ( Algorithms, Database, Artificial Intelligence etc), Economics courses (Game theory, Econometric, Financial Economics etc) and Management or any other department present in the university .

Coming on the B.S. Tag, it’ not different.You are not going to be differentiated from others if you are getting a B.S. Tag. It is just a title to your course. Before joining I felt it would have some significance in the value of the course that I would complete but there is none. You will be doing all the compulsory courses a B.Tech guy will do. I feel that this doubt is created in the minds of those who are not aware. 30-40 years ago people who did a B.tech had more economic opportunities than those who did not however this course did not exist 30-40 years ago. I had a hard time explaining the difference to my parents because there is none.
Who should take this course -
Persons who have keen interest in rigorous Mathematics and enjoy logic. This program is one of the best option for people who are not sure what they want to pursue since all modern applications of most fields rely on advanced mathematics. If you adamant about pursuing Computer Science and are unfortunately not able to enroll in good program then this is the closest option you can take , but never compare
Who should not take this course -
People who focus more on formulative approach and don’t like derivations and so. It’s a rigorous course, where one needs to focus more on concepts.
Comparisons between similar course at other places-
As I have explained about the course curriculum at IITK,I will like to focus on similar type of courses at other places.
Mathematics and Computing at IIT Delhi has more computer courses in it,but no such minors and lot of O.E.’s.Also, Computer courses are taken by Professors from Mathematics Department only.
Mathematics and Computing at IIT Guwahati focuses more on financial and computer courses than mathematics courses.They focus on applied Mathematics.
B.Math course at ISI,Bangalore has wide range over Mathematics(both analytical and applied part) .
Mathematics and Computer Science at CMI covers each part whether it is Mathematics or Computers, but they lack basic Engineering Courses.
I personally believe that 60-70% students don’t enjoy what they pursue and so, it’s better to choose a Bachelors course only.
Article you should also see-

- by professor Dheeraj Sanghi

I also suggest you to read an article wriiten by my department seniors Akshat Mudgal and Nihar Gagarava -
If you have any questions, feel free to message me here or on facebook (/pshubh).

Shubham Prakash

Mathematics And Scientific Computing , IIT Kanpur

Hello, wanderers!
This is Akshat and Nihar, two guys who recently completed their three years in Mathematics and Scientific Computing at IIT Kanpur and we write this article to give people a correct impression of what this programme actually entails.
Firstly, heartiest congratulations on clearing one of the toughest competitions on this planet. Really, it’s a major accomplishment and you should be proud of it! Though even after that, at this point of time, you must be pretty nervous wondering what if you choose the wrong place or the wrong branch. We know that feeling, we were just about there three years ago.
But having cleared JEE, you have already proved yourself awesome and as of this moment, know that whichever decision you take, will be the right decision. Having said that, here we go!
The first part contains general details about the campus and the four year Mathematics and scientific computing programme while the second part consists of some frequently asked questions (FAQs). These contain information about:
The misconception that academics at IITK are unbelievably hard.
The misconception that in IITK, math is one of the more difficult branches.
The misconception that Math at IITK only leads to research.
Mathematics at IITK vs Mathematics at any other Institute.
Is Mathematics at IITK a subtitute for Computer Science at IITK?
A B.S. degree vs a B.Tech degree.
I. Why IIT Kanpur?
As you might have already read from wikipedia : “IIT Kanpur is located on the Grand Trunk Road, 15 kilometres (9.3 mi) west of Kanpur City and measures close to 420 hectares (1,000 acres).” Hence IIT Kanpur is not only comfortably far from the chaos and noise of the city life, its larger-than-life campus ensures that even after your four-five years here, you still might end up not having seen everything it has to offer. One will find that all their requirements, from clothing to food, from cultural activities to sports facilities, and et cetera are easily fulfilled by the strong infrastructure provided. Due to the distance from the city, most people end up spending a lot of their time inside campus, thus developing and strengthening a culture that has been here for generations. Follow #ThatsIITK to get more insight about the life and culture of IITK.
Apart from the social and cultural life, what really makes IIT Kanpur special is the flexibility it offers. There are a lot of options and choices available when it comes to deciding your courses, and thus one can continuously choose to experiment around and yet, pursue their passion simultaneously. If one doesn’t feel aligned with their department courses, they could go for a minor, a major, a dual degree or even a branch change ( which continues to remain available upto the second year). As an example, If you come here with a mind completely focused on research, but as you go along and realise that it’s something like, say, entrepreneurship which you really want to go for, there will be options to pursue that. All in all, there is no strict linear path which one has to follow rigidly once they come here, and there are a tremendous amount of opportunities to deviate along which ever road you want to take.
II. What is Mathematics and Scientific Computing at IIT Kanpur ?
The four year B.S. (Bachelor of Sciences) Mathematics and Scientific Computing programme (also known as the Four year B.S. Math programme offered by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics) is one open ended road.
While the first year is common for every branch, and thus you get to do two core mathematics subjects (Introduction to Calculus & Linear Algebra) alongside courses from many other departments (Such as Electrodynamics, Mechanics, Biology, Engineering drawing, Chemistry, Programming, etc.) which offers you a window to the basics of each and every department.
Your second year starts to put a little more focus on departmental courses (like Algebra, Ordinary differential Equations, Logic, Probability and statistics) but also takes you around some core engineering subjects (Electronics, Manufacturing processes and so on) too.
Most of the third and fourth year courses are “departmental electives” (in the sense that you can choose these courses from a list offered by our department - that is, the Department of Mathematics and Statistics) or “open electives” (you can choose these to be courses offered by any department like the Department of Chemical Engineering, the Department of Civil Engineering, etc. including your own department).
Through these, one can choose to get into fields like economics, computer science, finance, electronics or learn more mathematics. There are also some necessary amount of engineering courses ( like thermodynamics, Algorithms, etc.) and humanities courses( Psychology, Philosophy, Linguistics, Arts and more) that you have to complete. These basically exist to ensure that you have some idea about what goes on outside your domain of interest. Going slightly specific, you get at least 8 “open electives” and 4 “departmental electives” (relevant to this is the footnote 1 at the end of the article).
With options like double major and minors, you can further model your template as per
your
wishes and interests (however, there is a small catch sometimes, do read the footnote 1). You can know more about this by following #ThatsIITK on Facebook and Quora.
At the end, I would like to say that while the programme offers a lot of choices and opportunities for the student to build his/her own template, it also manages to thoroughly cover sufficient amount of fundamentals.
While we have covered the basic details, now we will address some FAQs:
1.
I have heard that academics at IIT Kanpur are unbelievably hard and that I want to have an easy time in the next four years.
From personal experiences and friends from other IITs, we would say that academics at IIT Kanpur are definitely not more difficult than other IITs. Studying anything anywhere will demand its own sweat and grey matter and it should be rightfully given. The difficult part is the learning process which shapes you from a Just-cleared-JEE-kid into an IIT graduate.
But that does not mean you can’t have an enjoyable college life.
There is ample amount of time to manage your academics as well as extracurricular activities and social life here, and most students here end up participating thoroughly in at least one club/activity of their choice. If you follow the other articles about our campus, you’ll learn about many inter-college and inter-hostel festivals and competitions which alongside many cultural and technical workshops and events keep you occupied throughout the year.
As for marks, to be honest, three years of our experience says that
you seriously should NOT be thinking about college grades right now.
However, we will say that with enough dedication, anyone can score well academically! It is a misconception that academics here would demand extra effort than other place. And speaking from statistics, people do manage to find success here.
2.
I have heard mathematics is impossibly difficult and so much so that it can take at least six-seven years for a person to graduate.
This is a rather tasteless joke that floats around in the campus saying that the course is actually a six-seven year programme (because no one can finish it in the normal tenure. Get it?).
Yes, Mathematics is difficult. But that is true for all fields, be it the sciences or the engineering programmes. College mathematics is much different (
read: different, not difficult
) from high school mathematics as it starts off with more abstract notions and terms and requires more rigor and formality when it comes to concepts. But given some time and dedication, it is easy to get used to. Three of our years here combined with the experience of our seniors has just told us that the “six-seven years to graduate part” is highly fictitious and just some silly myth with unsound origins. Adding to that, with sufficient enthusiasm and zeal, many people from our department have performed wonderfully in academics.
3.
I have read that Mathematics at IIT Kanpur implies a further career in research only.
This is a misconception amongst many is that the branch is research oriented only.
The department have a strong background in both applied and pure math subjects which is seen reflected in the compulsory courses, as well as the department elective mathematics courses offered by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics (Enthusiastic people can actually check the 4 year programme template to see that there are almost equal applied and pure math compulsory courses). Furthermore, the students are at liberty to choose most courses to their liking. Many courses related to statistics and computational & applied mathematics find a lot of applications in the industry and other fields. When mixed well with courses outside the department, such a background often enables students to intern and get placed at various financing companies, banks, software corporations, etc.
The deal here is about what you want to make of yourself and only that, be it research or job or start up.
While we would prefer not to talk about placement/internship statistics simply because we do not believe in advertising a department on that basis, but it might be sufficient to say that people with that incentive have generally been very successful.
4.
What about Mathematics at IITK vs Mathematics at some other institute ABC ?
Honestly, both of us had been in some form of this dilemma during our period of JEE counselling. After coming here, both of us stand convinced that this was an excellent decision. But then again, that is our personal experience.
We have given some basic details about mathematics at IIT Kanpur. In our opinion, the curriculum that the institute offers is pretty open-ended and flexible - so even if you have an interest in another department or programme, you can do the specific courses of that department which align with your interests instead of doing a plethora of general courses.
Furthermore, you always have the opportunity to move from research to job-oriented future and vice versa. It has been mentioned again and again that the department has strong faculty in both pure and applied mathematics and being in IIT Kanpur, one of the top tier Engineering institutes in the country, will also give you a lot of exposure to other technical and cultural activities in the campus that provides one with a broader sense of education.
Another notable advantage is that
you get the option of converting a 4-year B.S program to a 5-year M.S. program during the course of your studies
, which is a good opportunity that you get for free!
With that said, it must also be added that you will meet some very smart and intellectual people here and make friends that will make a place in your hearts for a lifetime.
5.
I am mainly interested in computer science. Should I take IITK Mathematics?
It must have not escaped to the scrutiny of the curious eye that the course template of the 4-year template does not contain many compulsory computer-science related courses. This is because, the program you will be enrolled into is from the Department of Mathematics and Statistics, and not the Department of Computer Science and Engineering. Some of the laterally equivalent mathematics courses of other IITs do have more of such courses though. However, people interested in a career in computer science and engineering may exploit the flexibility of the program to select ‘open elective’ courses of Department of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) in which they can decide whether they want to pursue a specific sub-field of CSE or get a general background of the whole subject. (Again, please read footnote 1).
If you’re interested specially in theoretical computer science, with the right selection of courses a mathematics background can significantly enhance your understanding of some fields in this category (Relevant to this is footnote 2).
A natural follow-up to this question is a query regarding placements and if B.S. Mathematics students are eligible to the same placements as computer science students. The answer to this is that each companies restrict themselves to a particular eligibility and some companies do not open themselves to mathematics student (or in some instances, a company might only be open to mathematics students).
Important -
If your interest is however in earning as much money as you can
(which is perfectly fine!) and some “good samaritan” advised you to take this program as a substitute for computer science to get a “good” placement, then you need to reconsider your choice of “good samaritans”.
Taking advice about placements and salaries at this stage can be highly misleading and dangerous
. Mostly what we want to say is that NO ONE can ever definitely tell you how much you will earn in any branch in any college.
6.
Is there any disadvantage in taking B.S Mathematics (or any other B.S. Science course) rather than a B. Tech programme?
Firstly, as per our knowledge no one (apart from the government of India from whom you will possibly be availing a lot of money in the form of KVPY, INSPIRE scholarships for pursuing a B.S. programme) cares whether you did a B.S. course or not.
The term B.S. instead of B.Tech. is neither is it an issue during placements or internships, nor is it an issue when applying for higher studies.
Whichever your choice, you will be still called an IITian (whether you like it or not).
Essentially, the 4-year program is after all, a science degree, in the sense that majority of the compulsory courses that are included in the curriculum pertaining to this course are scientific in nature. However, as remarked earlier, courses other than these compulsory courses also exist and you are free to make your degree as technical as you want.
_____________________________________________________
Footnote 1
- So we have mentioned the availability of open electives which allow you to do any course from any other department. In IITK (and as far as we know, in any other IIT too) the way you get to do a course is you request/opt for the course from the instructor (the Professor who is teaching that course) and then the instructor decides whether to take you or not. In some instances, the instructor may reject you because he/she already has too many students or you may run into problems with schedules (two course timings may clash). Again, this is true for every other IIT as well.
But compared to other IITs, in IITK, you will definitely get a significantly more number of ‘open electives‘ and considerably more number of courses to choose from and that too for almost all of your courses during your third and fourth year (If you go through programme templates of different programmes in different IITs - you will see what I am talking about).
Footnote 2
- So if you wiki/google Theoretical Computer Science, you might come across this line - “Theoretical Computer Science is mathematical and abstract in spirit”. We know some people who have pursued topics in the above category and we have always heard that you require a lot of tools from topics like Algebra (specially Linear Algebra - there is practically no running away from it!), Probability and Analysis. All of these are parts of pure mathematics that are introduced and taught in your second year and which are used thoroughly in Theoretical Computer Science. Furthermore, a lot of topics in Computer Science find themselves dangerously close to (if not completely intertwined with) domains of pure mathematics - things like Graph theory, Combinatorics, Discrete mathematics, et cetera. This happens so often that many alumnus from Computer Science departments all over IITs become professors in mathematics and many math students go work under Professors from CS departments! So a background in mathematics will definitely help you a lot in a better understanding of numerous topics in theoretical CS type areas.
_________________________________________________________
So if you actually reach this point, thanks for reading the whole article! We hope it has helped you in one way or another. In case you have any further queries or just want to know some suggestions as to how/why we came to choose Math@IITK, feel free to contact either me or Nihar on facebook/gmail.
Akshat Mudgal -
- Akshat Mudgal |
Nihar Gargava -
-
Some important links you should check out:
1. IIT Kanpur BS Math programme - http://www.iitk.ac.in/math/b-s
2. This is a note by a senior of ours on some of the various options available for jobs and research after completion of a 4 year degree in Mathematics and Scientific Computing -
3. For those of you who are interested in research in pure math - we have been experimenting with the idea of student based lecture series -

Physics and IIT Kanpur

So, I've had a few people asking me about the physics department at IIT Kanpur. Before I talk about that, I want to shed some light on the format IIT Kanpur follows. IIT Kanpur has a semester system (with two semesters a year). Each department has some compulsary courses and some elective options. For example, physics students have to compulsarily take courses on Quantum Mechanics, Statistical Mechanics, Condensed Matter Physics, and the like. Electives can be from any department. All courses carry certain weightages called credits. Each student has to complete a total number of credits for their degree. Some of these credits will come from compulsary courses, and the rest from electives.
Why IIT Kanpur?
The cultural festival of IIT Kanpur, Antaragni, is run virtually entirely by students. The Students' Gymkhana is a body made of students of all batches. The New SAC (Students' Activity Center, a place for people to hang out) was majorly planned by the students of three batches, and the franchises selected for its food court were selected by a panel of students. The degree of freedom given to students at IIT Kanpur is, in my opinion, definitely larger than most other institutes. IIT Kanpur also has the distinct advantage of being in a city that is much lesser developed than places like Mumbai and Delhi. Why is this an advantage? IIT Kanpur has become self-contained, because there is a larger incentive to make everything available on campus. The choices of extra-curricular activities are larger, the food options are cheap and more varied, and all sections of the campus are together, making it a tighter, closer-knit location. Each club has its own advantages. Some clubs improve your speaking skill; others teach you a new art; even others let you hone your intellect in the direction you want. Art, music, literature, dance, electronics, robotics, photography, whatever your interest, there is going to be an outlet. If there isn't, it is not hard to create an outlet or a club for an interest you feel will benefit you. There are certain to be more people interested in the things you like.
Why physics
? I'll approach this question by mentioning points that I feel make a degree in Physics a good option for interested students. Physics is one subject with a mandate to explain, well, everything. Chemistry is applied physics; engineering is applied physics; physics is a practical application of mathematics. It is very easy for a physics scholar to understand (only on the surface, mind you) what is going on in any other field of technology. Applied physics is a vast field that encompasses space flight, drug delivery, material synthesis, semiconductors, mechanics, nuclear technology and superconductors; and that isn't even the tip of the iceberg. Physics is one subject that can be studied properly anywhere in the world, since all it really needs is a place to write on and a couple of brains. There are advantages to being in good institutes with a history of physics, since that makes learning easier, but in reality, that's an advantage, not a necessity. It is entirely possible to be a good physics scholar in the confines of your room, as long as you have a few good books on the subject. A third distinct advantage of studying physics (in my eyes) is that you really don't need to go to an office from 9am till 6pm every day. You don't need to have fixed hours, or deadlines, or even superiors for that matter. I mean, all these things may help, depending on the kind of person you are. You might need to sit in an office so that you don't get distracted, or your guide may want weekly updates to see the rate of your progress. However, generally the freedom is there, and anyone with self-discipline should face no problem in changing their study/work timing to one that suits them. And at the end of the day, you're being paid to sit and think; which I think is a dream job for anyone with the least amount of curiosity.
Why physics at IIT Kanpur then?
My answer to this question is a little different from other people. Most people will say that the faculty is good; the peer group is enthusiastic; the facilities available are state-of-the-art. These points are broadly true, in varying degrees of accuracy. However, that's not why I would advocate studying physics from IIT Kanpur. The
. (Integrated) program at IIT Kanpur (or the BS program now, I guess) has the following broad categories: Core courses that every department undergraduate student will do - physics, mathematics, electronics, computer science, and engineering. I'll go into more detail in a bit. The second category are electives - HSS (humanities and social science) electives and open electives. The third category consists of the core department courses and departmental electives. The first category is wonderful for anyone interested in applied physics. They get the huge advantage of learning to draw engineering drawings, and more importantly actually make something in the mechanical engineering and metallurgical engineering labs. Additionally, you'll always be in touch with engineering students, professors, departments, and research. I believe everyone should get the exposure the first few years at IITK provides. The second category is something very important for creating a wholesome human being. The years after finishing school are not just for studying, but also for creating an adult. When I entered IIT Kanpur, I was a kid that didn't know much about life, and little apart from my own subject. These electives gave me the opportunity to discover how much I like literature, philosophy, computer science, and chemistry. They gave me exposure to students and teachers with entirely different mindsets and approaches. In fact, I spent lots of the electives that I had on computer science courses, and I've learnt a lot from them. This point is more of a 'why IIT Kanpur' point than a 'why physics at IITK' point, but it's important enough. The third set of courses are the reason you're considering physics in the first place, and they shall be the main point in my next paragraph.


The Physics department at IIT Kanpur has three main research groups: Condensed Matter Physics (around 20-25 professors); Laser Physics (around 5 professors); High Energy Physics (around 5-10 professors); Ion-beam, plasma and Nuclear physics (around 5 professors). These groups do overlap. The department has roughly 30-40 professors. Compulsary courses for physics students fall in the following categories: Optics, Quantum Physics, Mathematical Methods for physicists, statistical physics, electrodynamics, classical physics, astronomy. Now, as an astute observer would have noticed, there really aren't dedicated professors for astrophysics, or classical physics. Most research at IIT Kanpur is in Solid State Physics, and Lasers. For someone interested in these fields, IIT Kanpur is a great place. For postgraduates reading this and for research-oriented students, there's one thing that's much more important that anything mentioned above. Find a professor with a similar research interest, and that's generally enough. It's going to be easier to find similar interests if your interests lie in the directions I've mentioned above, and harder if it's something like astrophysics or electrodynamics; but that's where the other departments come in. It's easy to learn fluid dynamics, and then hydraulics and space technology for the budding astronauts in my audience, and similarly, it's easy for someone to use the courses offered by the Electrical Engineering department to gain knowledge on electrical applications of physics.


Three final points to conclude my elaborate essay. Firstly, the biggest reason IIT Kanpur is the preferred location for physics scholars through JEE and JAM is that it is the preferred location for physics scholars through JEE and JAM. IIT Kanpur gets smart people who want to study physics, and it is those peers that matter the most. A good group will make studying physics easier and more efficient. In all honesty, I like barely a handful of the professors in the department. I learnt a lot with my peers. I learnt a lot from my peers. I learnt much much more from everyone else: from extracurricular clubs, from other department courses, from friends in other departments, from professors whose research I was interested in. Point number two is on something that needs mentioning before you seriously consider studying physics at IIT Kanpur. The physics department at IIT Kanpur is rigorous and intensive. You need to remember that this institute is a research institute. People quite literally play with complex equations for fun. That's what makes this place good. You need to be able to play with simple equations at the very least, and be prepared to continue that once you reach. Many people don't realize that. IIT Kanpur deals with theory, and that is still given the most preference. You can look at applications of what you study, and every other department deals with some of them. Physics at IIT Kanpur focuses on the theory, and that's how it should be.


Thirdly and finally, I hope what I have written helps, and I hope you make a decision -- whether for IIT Kanpur or against IIT Kanpur is immaterial -- I hope you make a decision that helps you and benefits you. I hope this decision works in your favour for the next few years, and I hope you realize that this decision matters less and less the further you go away from it, and you make decisions benefitting you later as and when you come to them. Thank you for taking the time out to read this.

Physics In IIT Kanpur

Hello,
I'm Praharsh, a Physics Undergraduate who's completed his third year at IIT Kanpur. So I've been asked to put in perspective the BS program in IIT Kanpur. I'll do this starting off first by the difference between The BS program here and a
. The 4 year BS program is modeled off the undergraduate education system in the US and also makes you directly eligible for applying for a Ph.d afterward, hence there is no requirement for a Masters, an option which is however available with only minimal criteria to satisfy.
Why a Physics Major?
So I'll start off with the question of why a Physics Major? The main aim of a Physics Undergraduate education is to prepare you for research in fields of physics that interest you. The generally followed career path involves first doing a Physics major, then doing a Ph.D in the subfield that interests you, then Postdoctoral Positions, before you apply for an Assistant Professorship to lead your own research group. You get paid from the point you start your Ph.D. The above path is general for all field of Science and Humanities if you intend to be a Professor and is a necessity if you want to keep discovering new things independently in this age.
Why Physics?
Physics is also the basis for our understanding of the world around us and hence deep research goes on in multiple scales. If you want a list of the unsolved problems in physics, you may look in [1] . Also physics has multiple applications that pushes cutting edge research in technology as well as in our understanding of the world which has often created subfields within unconventional fields including computer science [2] and economics[3] (Physicists have a tendency to poke their noses everywhere. ) . If you're interested in contributing to understanding how our world behave or you're interested in applying cutting edge discoveries in physics to create new technologies then the BS program is perfect for you.
What does a good Physics Major Involve?
Knowing that you intend to pursue this path means that you are looking for an undergraduate education that maximizes your research capabilities in your future. That would involve
1) Gaining a proficient command over all core areas of physics that form a minimum requirement for research in any sub-field you might end up doing (ex - Quantum Mechanics, Statistical Mechanics etc . )
2) adequate undergraduate research opportunities( To know what research means)
IIT Kanpur's Curriculum
The Undergraduate curriculum in IIT Kanpur is exceptionally flexible, The first year involves common courses with all other departments, but serves the physics department well with core courses in Mechanics and Electrodynamics as well as the math required involving analysis, linear algebra and Differential equations focused on the most.
The second year consists of mostly Engineering Science options that helps get an idea of what happens in other fields. Core compulsory courses in physics involve optics(the best course you'll have in your life, Experiments can be built from scratch) , thermal physics, relativity and quantum physics. These courses provide deep physical insight to help understand most of the coursework you'll do next
The third year involves core compulsory coursework including Classical Mechanics, Statistical Mechanics, Quantum Mechanics. These courses form the core of what you need to know to do research in almost any field of Physics. Also, far more electives are offered in the 6th semester that build upon these that give you a choice to start specializing in whatever field you want, including those not in physics
The fourth year largely consists largely of open and departmental Electives, allowing specializations in specific sub-fields of physics as well as taking courses in other departments if you want an intersecting field.
As for the Institution, IIT Kanpur generally allows taking a course if you satisfy the minimum requirements for it and its timings do not clash with other courses. People have taken courses earlier than the recommended schedule or courses outside their own. Also extra courses can be taken so long as the maximum credit limit is satisfied. Also you can look up the recommended template in [4].
Undergraduate Research at IIT Kanpur
As for research, people have joined laboratories as early as their first year. While it’s not possible to do core work so early. It generally helps give an idea if you want to continue research while observing the working environment of an academic. Professors are mostly accommodating and tend to give their time to you if you show that you’re interested. If you do not intend to continue in Physics, there is always an option to change your branch by the end of second year. Also research can be accommodated in coursework by doing an undergraduate project as early as the beginning of third year which a few of my friends have done. The list of professors is in [5] . Also the large number of holidays allow people to spend time in other research groups outside IIT Kanpur.
IIT Kanpur has also nurtured some of the best scientists in physics. A list of notable alumni can be found in [6]

References and Fun!
[1]
(and that's only the major ones! )
[2]
(a historical introduction to quantum computing in which the math will be accessible to you)
[3]
(an Interview of an econophysicist) (also I mentioned CS and eco because they're the weird ones, all other fields yield with a google search)
[4]
[5]
[6]
(The list’s repetitive, go by the people)
also [7]
since you people will be bored this summer :P

