Entrepreneurship Cell IIT Kanpur
ABOUT US
E-Cell, IIT Kanpur aims to induce an entrepreneurial mindset into the students and air an innovative streak in them. We are here to water the ‘Ideas’ in the bud and help them bloom into impactful endeavors through networking student enterprises from campus to incubators, seeding funds and angel investors to transform the newly proposed ideas into successful start-ups.
EVENTS
What We Do.
E-Cell organises a variety of events throughout the year to promote entrepreneurial activities in and around the campus. Our annual E-Summit witnesses huge participation from all over India. Events like TEDx and StartUp Master Class take the learning to a whole new level. E-Cell also conducts various lectures and workshops focussed at budding entrepreneurs. StartUp Internship Programme helps IITK students land internships in start-ups and get to know their working in greater depth.
E-SUMMIT
E-Summit is an annual flagship event of IIT Kanpur effectuated with the intention to foster entrepreneurial initiatives and activities in the campus to accomplish IIT Kanpur's mandate of nurturing India's future technopreneurs. Sharing of entrepreneurship endeavour and experiences, discussion of ideas and opportunities will be a profuse learning experience for the active leaders of entrepreneurship in the savant community who can then disperse these ideas further
TEDX
TED is a global set of conferences run by the private non-profit Sapling Foundation, under the slogan "Ideas Worth Spreading". TED was founded in 1984 as a one-off event; the annual conference series began in 1990. TEDx IIT Kanpur is an independent initiative by Entrepreneurship Cell, IIT Kanpur, under the umbrella of TED, to organize versatile an annual talk series from several eminent speakers from the field of Technology, Entertainment and Design.
UPSTART
An event that caters to the budding startups of our country, Upstart stands apart from the conventional Start-up Competition and 10-minute pitching - we strive to give our participants more than just the prize. The start-ups go through multiple rounds of screening, which are essentially brainstorming sessions at different levels and face to face mentoring. Finalists get to develop their ideas and hone their business plans with a panel of mentors.
STARTUP MASTER CLASS
In association with Alumni Association, IIT Kanpur, E-Cell organises StartUp Master Class, a highly enriching and enlightening platform for entrepreneurs, graced by many famous personalities. SMC is a unique format startup event “for Entrepreneurs, from Entrepreneurs”. It brings together startups, mentors and investors to build interactions and strengthen the network within the entrepreneurial community.
STARTUP INTERNSHIP PROGRAM
E-Cell, IIT Kanpur achieved great success with Startup Internship Program 2017-18 season with a total of 151 Startups that registered. The profiles included IT/Programming, Core, and Marketing/Business Development. The season saw recruitment from startups like Invento Robotics, Ridlr, Dunzo, Pharmeasy, EarlySalary to name a few. The season witnessed a 73 % boom in the total internships offered than the previous year.
CAMPUS HANGOUTS
Hangouts is special interactive session specifically targeting the campus students. The session is like an informal discussion between campus junta and entrepreneurship oracles of varied arenas. It involves discussions and brainstorming on entrepreneurship matters. Throughout the year multiple hangout sessions are organised.
Ensight'21
We are thrilled to release our first issue of Ensight - an Insight in the vast universe of Entrepreneurship through the eyes of Entrepreneurship Cell, IIT Kanpur.\n\nEnjoy taking an insight in the phenomenal activites organised by the Cell round the year - a well flavoured combination of online and offline affairs to promote the spirit of entrepreneurship. The first issue contains everything from ideas to possibilities, from candid conversations to opportunities.\n\nHave fun exploring!!
E-SUMMIT'23-INQUISITION OF INFINITY
Unleashing the theme of 'Inquisition' where uncharted realms await your curiosity's embrace. Venture into the unknown, question the unquestioned, and sculpt innovation from mere ideas. With 'Infinity,' dream beyond horizons, paint success without borders. Let this fusion kindle a wildfire of revolutionary thinking, where entrepreneurs script tomorrows unseen.
STARTUP EXPO
Startup expo offers a platform for startups to showcase their unique ideas and the opportunity to orchestrate Product Launches, network with investors, and gain exposure to a wider audience.
UPSTART
UpStart being the flagship pitching event of E-Cell has always catered to the budding startups of the nation. With 500+ registrations, UpStart has managed to sow the seeds of entrepreneurship across the country.\nREAD MORE\nNETWORKING DINNER\nE-Cell IIT Kanpur holds a networking dinner with the aim of not just connecting people but connecting people with ideas and people with opportunities.
COMPETITIONS
Decrypt:
Ignite your entrepreneurial spirit with Decrypt, the ultimate case study competition. Dive into real-world challenges, make tough decisions, and embark on an exhilarating journey of problem-solving!
Upstart Campus:
The classic pitching competition that showcases one's ability to ideate and pitch in front of judges from the across entrepreneurship world. Get the experience of being in the shoes of real life entrepreneur and learn what 'The Art of the Pitch' is all about.
Cryptocraze:
Get ready to ride the CryptoCraze wave, a thrilling virtual crypto trading competition where fortune favors the boldest! Seize control of your financial destiny and showcase your trading prowess. Dive into the undiscovered realms of the entrepreneurial world!
Sell your Sole:
Prepare to unleash your marketing genius in the Sell Your Sole competition! Step into the shoes of a CMO and craft a game-changing marketing campaign for an existing brand. It's your chance to redefine success!
Model United Corporations:
Unlock the thrill of corporate leadership! Join Model United Corporations and immerse yourself in the world of CEOs, CMOs, and CFOs. Conquer high-pressure decision-making, strategic challenges, and teamwork. Sharpen your skills, seize the spotlight, and prove you\'ve got what it takes to lead in the boardroom. Join the competition, transform into a corporate titan!"
Be An Angel:
Experience the investor's perspective in Be an Angel:Shark Tank Edition. Role-play as an Angel Investor with $5 million to invest. Assess startups, pitch investment strategies, and face VC judges. Understand both sides of the table in this nerve-wracking pitch competition. 
Youth Entrepreneurship Challenge offers an ideal platform for curious young minds to tackle everyday problems with ingenuity and originality. From imparting fundamental concepts of entrepreneurship to refining imaginative ideas, to crafting a business plan and presenting it to a panel of respected judges, this platform/challenge has it all!
Youth Entrepreneurship Challenge aims to ignite the spark of innovation and problem-solving, encouraging young individuals to think outside the box and come up with novel solutions. Through this platform/challenge, participants will learn to turn their passion into profitable ventures and develop essential skills that will serve them well in their personal and professional lives.
The Campus Ambassador program is our effort to create an entrepreneurial web of college students across the country and provide them with ample opportunities to develop and revolutionize the start-up world. The selected Campus Ambassadors will work collectively with our team and become the face of E-Cell, IIT Kanpur in their respective campuses. The program will give them the room to enhance their skill-set while simultaneously bringing about entrepreneurial advancement in their colleges.
Mr Ajay Dubey (BT/CHE/1980) esteemed alumnus of IIT Kanpur, has implemented Rooma & Ajay Dubey Healthcare Innovation and Ideation Program (HII Program) with his generous contribution. Health technology is defined as "application of organized knowledge and skills in the form of devices, medicines, vaccines, procedures, and systems developed to solve a health problem and improve quality of lives".
HII program is to support students of IITK in the field of Healthtech innovation to convert their ideas into reality. Young minds are a treasure of innovation and thriving ideas. Through this program, such talented students will get a chance to prove their talent and convert their project ideas to develop product design prototypes. The stalwarts and big businesses of today were at one time just mere ideas of innovation. These ideas were supported and encouraged to cause market disruption and they lead to the success that the world sees today.
Entrepreneurship Cell IIT Kanpur envisages EntreVerse as an exhilarating and thought provoking event. With a lineup of competitions, insightful workshops and enriching panel discussions, this event will provide the audience a wholesome exposure to the vast world of business. This universe would give a golden opportunity to inquisitive minds to interact with and get inspired by our worthy speakers and also to prove their mettle in competitions.
WORKSHOPS
PITCH DECK MAKING
Everyone has ideas but the way you frame it and present it creates the difference. PDM is a workshop on how to create your pitch and present your startup ideas in front of the judge. A good pitch is a balancing act that gets people in the room to believe in you and your startup. This workshop is centred to teach you this highly valuable skill.
PORTFOLIO BUILDING
In today's stock markets scenario, a well-constructed portfolio is vital to wealth creation. In this scenario, the big question that arises is, what are the things to keep in mind when making your portfolio? Financial investments like stocks, bonds, commodities, cash, and cash equivalents, are the backbone for all the industries. This workshop will cover all the elements related to portfolio building.
HOW TO THINK LIKE A VC ?
There’s no single soul among us unacquainted to the wave of entrepreneurship initiated by multiple seasons of Shark Tank. Does it not occur to you as to how these sharks decide upon their investments? We bring to you “How to think like a VC?” , a workshop which aims to clear your doubts and introduce you to the art of angel investing with acclaimed venture capitalists joining us in.
COMPETITIONS
GAME OF AUCTIONS
Game of Auctions would require strategic trade-offs, teamwork, and the ability to take prompt decisions to best utilise monetary resources. Teams will be given a budget to contest in an auctioning event and followed by the strategic presentation.
PARALLEL UNIVERSE
In this competition teams of students will be assigned a product, they will have to then pitch a product that has the opposite utility of the given product. This competition will test the creativity and innovation of contestants and their skill to sell their product.
India's biggest celebration of something which is not for the faint-hearted but which lies at the heart of every passion-driven endeavor - "ENTREPRENEURSHIP". Entrepreneurial Extravaganza(E Square), India's biggest virtual entrepreneurial event where the distinction between a newbie enthusiast and an experienced entrepreneur will be blurred because if someone attends, they are getting to be a part of the galore of the same knowledge and perspective as everyone else. E Square is a week-long virtual entrepreneurial event, scheduled to be held from July 26th - August 2nd, 2020, where passion, experience, resources, and opportunities will converge to make it a once in a lifetime experience for many. It brings together a bunch of talks, panel discussions, workshops, and competitions focusing on interdisciplinary approaches that will eventually break the barrier to entrepreneurship.
STOCK THE STOCK
Stock the Stock, a live stock trading competition where the bright minds compete against each other to design the most marketable portfolio from the rendered stocks through excessive bidding. E- Cell IIT K presents “Stock the Stock”, now show off your Fin Gyan by trading in a live stock trading competition. Apply your aptitude, analyze the market fluctuations, make profitable bidding and let the market play its game. Get ready for a power-packed environment and experience unlimited fun. Compete against the smart-witted minds to design the most valuable portfolio from the provided stocks and win exciting prizes!
EXTRAVAGANZA QUIZ
Does your wanderlust for the world of entrepreneurship, startups, and business doesn’t allow your mind to settle down at one place? We are here to take you on a fascinating journey to this infinite space of diapason of a giant to small startups and ideas. Get ready to be a part of this cliff-hanger event of Extravaganza where you would be vying with the real virtuoso and nimble minds with a passion for the business world. Extravaganza Quiz promises you to provide the best quizzing experience, mind-boggling questions, nail-biting tension, taking calculated risk situations and a lot more unexpected things.
TED is a nonprofit organization devoted to spreading ideas, usually in the form of short, powerful talks (18 minutes or less). TED began in 1984 as a conference where Technology, Entertainment and Design converged, and today covers almost all topics - from sciences to business to global issues - in more than 100 languages.

STARTUPS:


DELHIVERY
Provider of logistics management solutions for e-commerce businesses founded in 2011
Founders :
Kapil Bharati, Mohit Tandon, Sahil Barua, Suraj Saharan


RAILYATRI
App-based platform that provides real-time rail transit information and ticketing solutions founded in 2011
Founders :
Kapil Raizada, Manish Rathi, Sachin Saxena


NOBROKER
Provider of a listing platform for residential and commercial properties founded in 2014
Founders :
Akhil Gupta, Amit Agarwal


URBANCLAP
Provider of electronics repair services
Founders :
Abhiraj Singh Bhal, Bike Doctor, Raghav Chandra, Varun Khaitan


INMOBI
Platform offering mobile ad network software founded in  2007
Founders :
Abhay Singhal, Amit Gupta, Mohit Saxena, Naveen Tewari, Piyush Shah


SHARECHAT
App-based social platform for sharing media content founded in 2015
Founders :
Ankush Sachdeva, Bhanu Pratap Singh, Bhanu Singh, Farid Ahsan


MYNTRA
Online marketplace offering multi-category fashion products founded in 2007
Founders :
Mukesh Bansal, Vineet Saxena, Ashutosh Lawania


OKCREDIT
App-based bookkeeping and accounting solutions for small businesses founded in 2017
Founders :
Aditya Prasad, Harsh Pokharna, Gaurav Kunwar


NOCCARC ROBOTICS
Established in the year 2017, Noccarc Robotics Private Limited is engaged in manufacturing of ICU Ventilator
Founders :
Nikhil Kurele, Harshit Rathore


MOGLIX
B2B marketplace platform offering industrial goods founded in 2015
Founders :
Rahul Garg, Sachin Chaudhary, Anurag Srivastava


CURE.FIT
Provider of digital and offline fitness services founded in 2016
Founders :
Mukesh Bansal, Ankit Nagori


INPHI
Provider of high-speed analog semiconductors founded in 2000
Founders :
Gopal Raghavan


GLANCE
Provider of mobile lock screen content management & advertising solutions founded in 2009
Founders :
Naveen Tewari


MPL
An online platform offering e-sports and real money casino gaming activities founded in 2018
Founders :
Sai Srinivas Kiran Garimella, Shubham Malhotra


KAAGAZ SCANNER
Document Scanner, PDF Reader, PDF Editor, Document Manager & Cloud Storage all rolled into one.
Founders :
Gaurav Shrishrimal


PUBMATIC
Founders :
Amar Goel, Anand Das, Mukul Kumar, Rajeev Goel


GEOIQ
GeoIQ is a locational intelligence platform that tells the value of each location - people, their behaviours, businesses, and potentials - as easily consumable layers on maps.
Founders :
Dev Fuloria, Ankita Thakur, Tusheet Shrivastava


PIAZZA
The predominant social learning platform connecting students, instructors and employers.
Founders :
Pooja Sankar


JUNIPER
Juniper Networks is leading the revolution in networking, making it one of the most exciting technology companies in Silicon Valley today. Liencres nearly 20 years ago, Juniper’s sole mission has been to create innovative products and solutions that meet the growing demands of the connected world.
Founders :
Pradeep Sindhu


IXIGO
AI-based online platform providing multiple travel services founded in 2007
Founders :
Aloke Bajpai, Dharmendra Yashovardhan, Rajnish Kumar


INFOSYS
Provider of digital marketing, data analytics, and IT suite services founded in 1981
Founders :
Ashok Arora, K. Dinesh, Kris Gopalakrishnan, N.R.Narayana Murthy, Nandan Nilekani, NS Raghavan, Parv Saini, S.D. Shibulal


ONLINETYARI
OnlineTyari is here to change the way students and job aspirants prepare for various exams in India. We are building smart tech solutions for delivering educational content, mock tests and guidance online through our web and app platform. We are already India’s largest test preparation platform with more than 5 million app downloads and growing rapidly! Founded in 2014
Founders :
Bhola Meena, Udai Meena, Vipin Agarwal


ABLE JOBS
Online candidate assistance solution provider founded in 2018
Founders :
Ravish Agrawal, Siddharth Srivastav, Swatantra Kumar


SHUTTL
Founded in 2015, Shuttl is India’s largest office commute service provider. With a mission of solving the pain of commute, Shuttl offers a space-efficient, safe, and cost-effective solution for urban India.
Founders :
Deepanshu Malviya, Amit Singh


AERON
Aeron Systems located in Pune, India, focuses on development of technology applying its expertise in embedded electronics to domains encompassing aerospace, automotive, renewable energy and agriculture founded in 2008.
Founders :
Ashvani Shukla, Abhijeet Bokil


HEALTHCAREMAGIC
HealthcareMagic is a fast-growing consumer-centric health company founded to transform how people approach their health and wellness. HealthcareMagic is now the largest website where people get answers from Doctors, around the world, around the clock founded in 2008.
Founders :
Abhilash Thirupathy, Kunal Sinha, Nitesh Pant, Shekhar Sahu


METTL
Online assessment platform to test pre-hires and employees founded in 2010
Founders :
Ketan Kapoor, Tonmoy Shingal


KNOWLARITY
Cloud based telephony solution provider for SMEs founded in 2009
Founders :
Ambarish Gupta, Pallav Pandey


ZEEMAPS
Our goal at ZeeMaps is to provide you with the simplest mechanisms to create your own customized maps with minimal effort. We give you options such as crowd-sourcing map data, or directly uploading and synchronizing from spreadsheets. You can use maps created with ZeeMaps in the myriad ways that people have traditionally used maps, or put them to more innovative use with the new technology and all that it entails, e.g., get a visceral sense of location data, convey geographical reach to colleagues, friends, customers, search through a prospects list, and so forth. We provide you with the technology to create maps — what you do with it is up to you.
Founders :
Pankaj Garg


TOWNSCRIPT
Townscript is India's leading Experiences Marketplace with Organisers hosting 20k+ events & experience annually to sell tickets across 100+ Indian cities. BookMyShow, India's leading Online Entertainment Platform, did strategic investment in Townscript in 2018 founded in 2012.
Founders :
Sachin Sharma, Sanchit Malik


LIVSPACE
Online platform offering in-home interior designs for home improvement founded in 2014
Founders :
Anuj Srivastava, Ramakant Sharma, Shagufta Anurag


SUPERPROFS
Superprofs.com is revolutionizing the online education industry by bringing classrooms of India's Best professors online, so that students preparing for competitive exams like CA, CS, GATE, IIT-JEE, Civil Services etc. can attend them from anywhere, at anytime! Students can now attend HD-quality coaching classes from the comfort of their homes. The Professors who teach at SuperProfs.com are not only experts in their respective fields, but they are also result oriented, tech savvy and student friendly. The courses available on SuperProfs are curated and offer guaranteed 100% syllabus coverage. Real-time doubt clearing, assessments and exclusive study material are also provided to ensure comprehensive learning experience for students founded in 2010.
Founders :
Piyush Agarwal, Sujeet Kumar


GETMECAB
GetMeCab is India's largest intercity cab booking platform (cab aggregator) for Outstation Round and One Way Trips from Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Chennai, Pune, Gurgaon, Noida, Jaipur, Chandigarh, Kolkata, Agra, Bhopal, Shimla, Manali, and More founded in 2010.
Founders :
Amit Lakhodia, Bhola Meena, Kapil Sehgal, Sanjeev Duggal


PARIKSHA
Pariksha is the largest vernacular EdTech company. It is solving the massive problem of accessibility and affordability of outcome-based education for the mobile 1st internet users of Bharat. Our vision is to become the world’s largest EdTech company, our mission is to make affordable, outcome-based, education available to all, and our purpose is to democratizing equal access to learning opportunities.
Founders :
Deepak Choudhary, Karanvir Singh Shekhawat, Utkarsh Bagri, Vikram Shekhawat


CYIENT
Provider of digital engineering and technology solutions founded in 1991
Founders :
Venkat Rama Mohan Reddy


SHOP101
Online reselling platform for multi-category products founded in 2015
Founders :
Abhinav Jain, Aditya Gupta, Rishabh Dhall


GOFRO
Gofro.com is a start-up in travel domain with a potential to disrupt the way the travel industry operates. The company is founded by Amitabh Misra, who as CTO of Snapdeal, led development of India's Largest Online Marketplace and backed by MakeMyTrip, India's #1 Online Travel Company founded in 2015.
Founders :
Amitabh Misra


TARS
Tars helps marketing and customer service teams optimize their conversion funnels, automate their customer service interactions, and redefine their customer experience using chatbots founded in 2016.
Founders :
Ish Jindal, Vinit Agrawal


PROMPTCLOUD
PromptCloud is a leading web data crawling & extraction company, serving customers across the globe with valuable data to suit their business needs. Based on the Data-as-a-Service (DaaS) model, PromptCloud uses cloud computing & machine-learning techniques to offer big data solutions to enterprises founded in 2009.
Founders :
Prashant Kumar


SKYFI LABS
At Skyfi Labs, we help students all over the world develop practical skills. The curriculum in schools and colleges does not allow students to develop the much needed practical exposure. Skyfi Labs helps students overcome this challenge and develop these practical skills very easily. Students can enroll in our online courses, receive kit(s)/ software tools at their doorstep, and build projects. Skyfi Labs platform helps students to pick projects of their interest and build real working projects from their homes via online courses or directly from our experts through our live training programs founded in 2012.
Founders :
Aditya Chundi, Pavan Ponnaganti

SHOOLINI UNIVERSITY
Founded by leading academicians and professionals, Shoolini University is a young, research-focussed, philanthropic university. Established in 2009, this is an innovation-led centre of learning consistently ranked among India’s top 100 universities (NIRF). One of India’s highest generators of patents, Shoolini University matches the world’s best universities in research output. That has made us India’s No. 1 private university as per Times Higher Education and QS World University Rankings founded in 2009.
Founders :
Atul Khosla


ROCKETIUM
Rocketium is an agile CreativeOps platform that helps enterprises take their communications to market faster and at lower costs. With the combined strength of creative automation, seamless collaboration, automated brand compliance, powerful creative analytics, and smart content management, our platform empowers enterprises to do more with their existing teams, processes, and tools founded in 2015.
Founders :
Anurag Dwivedi, Satej Sirur



PRAMATI
Pramati is a privately held software company that builds independent technology businesses focused on profitable and emerging markets in cloud, data, intelligence, and mobility. Its unique corporate incubator model spins ventures that provide enterprises and ISVs with best of breed platforms to develop secure cloud-native solutions, improve employee productivity and make customer experience more engaging founded in 1998.
Founders :
Vijay Pullur


TRENDLYNE
Trendlyne is a ‘Retail Bloomberg platform’ enabling decision making for retail investors, research analysts and Portfolio advisors with real time data analytics. Our technology turns every financial data point into structured data, on which strategies can be created and back tested in real time. Trendlyne DVM scores provide a headline insight on how good or bad a stock is - simplifying investment decision making founded in 2017.
Founders :
Amber Pabreja

KREDX
Integrated cash flow solution provider founded in 2015
Founders :
Anurag Jain, Manish Kumar


THE PORTER
App-based platform offering on-demand truck booking and courier delivery services founded in 2014
Founders :
Pranav Goel, Uttam Digga, Vikas Choudhary


PROPERTYSHARE
Crowdfunding platform for real estate investment founded in 2015
Founders :
Hashim Khan, Kunal Moktan

TAG-HIVE
Provider of AI-powered quiz application founded in 2017
Founders :
Pankaj Agarwal



