TEAM HUMANOID IITK

ABOUT US 

We are a team of dedicated UGs working on the
development of Humanoid Robotics.
We are a team of dedicated UGs working on the development of Humanoid Robotics.
Our ultimate target is to make a Fully-functional Autonomous Humanoid Robot, which closely mimics 
human beings. We compete in competitions related to Humanoid Robotics, like the FIRA (Federation of International Robot-soccer Association) HuroCup. 


OUR HUMANOID BOTS
DARWIN
DARWINAUTOMI
BIOLOID
 PREMIUM

SUBSYSTEMS

MECHANICAL SUBDIVISION

A well-designed bot requires flexibility in CAD, along with
thorough analyses of architecture, mechanics, electronics,
and thermal aspects. Calculations are crucial for selecting
the best components to ensure proper functionality.
A well-designed bot requires flexibility in CAD, along with thorough analyses of architecture, mechanics, electronics, and thermal aspects. Calculations are crucial for selecting the best components to ensure proper functionality.
DYNAMICS
We use algorithms to create safe and efficient paths for robots in
 complex environments, considering obstacles, changin
g conditions, and uncertain sensory data. These paths account f
or the robot's kinematics and dynamics.

SOFTWARE
SUBDIVISION

Computer vision can solve more complex
problems such as facial recognition
(used, for example, by Snapchat to apply
filters), and detailed image analysis that
allows for visual searches. 
Computer vision can solve more complex problems such as facial recognition (used, for example, by Snapchat to apply filters), and detailed image analysis that allows for visual searches. 
In team Humanoid, we use Computer Vision for object detection, target identification, and environment mapping. 

SIMULATION
Simulation in robotics involves creating a
 virtual environment that mimics the real
-world conditions in which a robot will operate. This virtual environment can 
be used to test and evaluate the robot's performance, behavior, and capabilities before it is deployed in the real world.
In Team Humanoid, we test various
 algorithms like the one used for walking using simulation. 

ELECTRONICS
SUBDIVISION

In humanoid robotics, it is common to
utilize Arduino, controllers, and sensors
to equip robots with the necessary control
and sensing abilities. 
In humanoid robotics, it is common to utilize Arduino, controllers, and sensors to equip robots with the
 necessary control and sensing abilities. 
These components play a crucial role in enabling robots to interact with their environment, making them an indispensable aspect of robotics.


ACHIEVEMENTS

IEEE IROS AND ICRA 2023
IEEE IROS AND ICRA 2023
These competitions were based on simulation on WEBOTS platform and we used several image processing algorithms for depth estimation, and designed several motion files for the bot from scratch.
We participated in IEEE IROS Humanoid Wrestling competition in September 2023
and secured 2nd place globally in the first stage, and in ICRA competition held in June 2023, we secured 4th place globally. 
These competitions were based on
simulation on WEBOTS platform and we
used several image processing algorithms
for depth estimation, and designed several
motion files for the bot from scratch.

INTER IIT TECH MEET 11.0
The Inter IIT Problem Statement
 consisted of designing and simulating an automatic robotic charging arm f
or electric vehicles. 
We had to design a robotic arm from
 scratch that would have a charger connected to its end effector. 
The arm had to automatically detect the
 charging port, apply inverse kinematics to reach the aforementioned port, plug 
in the charger and return to its initial position. 

COMPETITIONS

FIRA HuroCup.

IIT Kanpur became the First Indian team to qualify for FIRA HuroCup.
Team Humanoid participated in 5 events and the team performed creditably in each event. 

WHY FIRA?
FIRA hosts robotics events
 attracting over 150 teams annually. The FIRA HURO CUP simulates human tasks, aiding humanoid robot development through competitive engagement.Visit www.fira.net for more.


ARCHERY
Create robots for an endurance race
 on a colored track. They segment 
the line for the goal, generate 
a path for navigation, and adjust
 the path based on arrow detection.

MARATHON
Create robots for an endurance race on
a colored track. They segment the line
for the goal, generate a path for
navigation, and adjust the path based on
arrow detection.

BASKET BALL
AT FIRA HURO CUP
Grab the basketball, identify it, and
 approach.  Use  trajectory  generation  to determine motor angle s based on start and end points. Measure distances to 
the ball and ho op. Th row  at the suitable departure angle.

WEIGHTLIFTING
Task: Pick up weights and carry them to a goal
Adapt to the change in weight distribution by
lowering the robot’s natural COM


PROJECTS


Automi Walking Simulation

Our FIRA HuroCup participation involves training
our autonomous bot in diverse skills like walking,
archery, and basketball. AUTOMI, our humanoid bot
based on the Darwin architecture, undergoes
realistic simulations using Gazebo, ROS, and
Simulink. We integrate Simulink with Gazebo,
configure ROS communication, and fine-tune
Python-controlled joint movements for realistic and
precise task execution.

Automi Redesign

Motivated to enhance AUTOMI's efficiency for
the FIRA HURO Cup, our project undertook a
redesign journey, incorporating CAD modeling
with Autodesk Fusion 360 and Solidworks. This
included an analysis of global research on
humanoid biped robots, informing the tentative
dimensions for our robot's parts and laying the
foundation for an optimized design.

Robotic Arm

Guided by Prof. K.S. Nalwa, our team is
building two 3 DOF robotic arms for
automating a solar cell manufacturing step in
India, funded by the Government of India.
Progress includes concluding the literature
review and ideation, completing the first
design iteration with component
procurement, and currently, the team is
dedicated to developing the electronics and
control system for the arms, ensuring timely
project delivery.

Soccer Simulation

1. For our debut in the February 2024
RoboCup Soccer Simulation League, we are
strategically approaching the 2D soccer
simulation competition, focusing on serverclient interaction and soccer-playing strategy
formulation.
2. Sub-problems tackled involve multi-agent
communication setup, custom logfile
protocol development for parsing, and a
detailed examination of essential sensors
like visual, aural, and body sensors.
Additionally, the team is acquiring socket
programming skills for connection
establishment using UDP/IP Protocol.


SOFTWARES
USED

INVENTOR
Robotic Operating System
INVENTOR
MATLAB
CAD Platform
ROS
Robotic
Operating
System
SolidWorks
CAD 
For scientific computing and visualisation
MATLAB
For scientific
computing and
visualisation
GAZEBO
3D physical
environment

LIBRARIES

INVENTORLibrary for image processing
MATLAB
INVENTORMachine Learning Library
SCI-KIT IMAGE
Library for
image
processing
TENSORFLOW
Machine
Learning Library
For camera image 
reading an
d processing
reading and
processing
MATLAB
INVENTOR
Provides API for
plotting graphs
MATPLOTLIB
Provides API for
plotting graphs
Provides support for multi-dimensional
arrays

FUTURE PLANS

We are also planning to participate in various other competitions with
problem statements related to humanoid robotics including the Inter IIT
Tech Meet.
We are about to start with Y23 recruitment soon. We are looking for
technical team members in the fields of mechanics, computer vision,
electronics, design, and simulation who are enthusiastic to work for the
team and achieve great heights together. 
We are also planning to participate in various other competitions with p
roblem statements related to humanoid robotics including the Inter IIT Tech Meet.We are about to start with Y23 recruitment soon. We are looking for technical team members in the fields of mechanics, computer vision, electronics, design, and simulation who are enthusiastic to work for the team and achieve great heights together. 
Junior Team members will work as a team on projects spanning all domains of robotics to build fully functional biped robots.

THANK YOU
    Team heads:
Aadvik Kumar
Ankit Kumar
Khushi Agarwal
Aadvik Kumar
Ankit Kumar
Khushi Agarwal
Mehar Goenka
Siddharth Garg
