IITK Rocketry and Space Exploration Team (IRASET)
Who We Are and What We Do

We are a group of students who are highly motivated towards Experimental Rocketry. We came
together to form the first student rocketry team on Campus whose aim is to compete with the best
student teams across the globe and help realise India’s innate potential in this field.

We work on exciting areas such as developing completely student build Solid-Propellant-Rocket-Motor,
manufacturing light-weight, high-performance rocket parts - made from Glass Fibre or Carbon Fiber
composites and finding innovative methods for in-flight data logging, telemetry and parachute recovery.
We are completing our first year since inception, it feels we are just getting started!!

What is our motive

Student researched projects
We are working on the following projects
currently:
1) Developing our own KNSB Solid
Rocket Motor
2) Developing a flight computer for data
logging and recovery.
3) Manufacturing Composite Rocket
Parts via hand layups
We will pursue the following student
research projects in the future:
1) Active control via fin stabilization
2) Liquid rocket engine using aerospike
nozzles

Target competitions
We are targeting the following
competitions:
1) Latin America Space Challenge
2) IN-Space Cansat competition
3) Spaceport America Cup

Our Competitions
Spaceport America Cup 
NACDeC
DoraHacks

Spaceport America Cup
This is an annual global competition for experimental sounding rockets.
Target apogee categories - 10k ft and 30k ft
Propulsion categories - COTS Solid, SRAD Solid and SRAD Liquid
Recovery - Dual and Single Stage
Payload Challenge - Has various concepts every year out of which each team chooses one to proceed with application
The competition has various stages -
Preliminary Design Report
First Progress Report
Second Progress Report
Safety Review
Final Launch

We are participating in 10k COTS category with our payload being
based on the application of AI/ML.
We have successfully crossed the stage of First Progress Report
submission and working on the second report.
Simultaneously we are manufacturing our payload, avionics bay and
airframe at present.

NACDeC
NACDeC-VII competition organized by the
Aeronautical Society Of India is focused on
conceptual design and sizing of a Martian
Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) intended for
conducting atmospheric exploration missions in
close proximity to the planet’s surface. This project
aims to identify feasible UAV design by considering
various configurations and leveraging available
technologies.
We have cleared stage one and have submitted our
second design report for a UAV for Mars Exploration
the National Aerospace Conceptual Design
Challenge (NACDeC - VII).
In the final stage we aim to finalise the design
configuration of UAV.

DoraHacks
This is a hackathon for developing pragmatic use cases of Spacex Starship.
Among the proposed sub categories, we went on with an open ended
challenge of coming up with a novel satellite constellation.

Our solution -
Service Satellites in LEO and VLEO to refuel and service
existing defunct but useful satellites and also to deorbit others
to clean space debris.
Chief Satellites in GEO for the refueling and servicing of
Service Satellites.
We eventually won the first round of the hackathon acquiring a prize
money of 40,000 INR.
We will be moving to work further on this idea for the second round
which we plan to keep open for the campus junta as well.

Propulsion Subsystem
Propulsion subsystem designs, simulates and manufactures the propulsion system of the rocket. We
manufacture our own custom solid-propellants, cast them and test fire them. We are currently
working on Potassium Nitrate/Sorbitol Propellant. Here’s what we have done so far.

Structures and Aerodynamics
Structures and Aerodynamics subsystem is responsible for designing and
manufacturing the most optimized Rocket structure. We coordinate between
all the other subsystems to make the design compatible and efficient at the
same time. The subsystem manufactures custom light-weight, high
performance aerodynamic parts and primarily deals with composite materials.
Composites are famous for high strength-to-weight ratios. Here are some of our
GlassFibre layups.

Avionics, Recovery & Payload
We are responsible for in-flight data logging, telemetry and ejection of parachute and payload. We also work
on active control systems of the rocket. We are currently building a student developed flight computer capable
of doing all this. We are also developing a Cansat which will be used as a payload in our sounding rocket.
Here is our flight computer being tested and the design of avionics bay

Our Faculty Advisors
Dr. Abhijit Kushari 
Dr. Ashoke De 
Dr. Rajesh Kitey

Contact Us
Y20:
Atharva Dehadraya
Y21:
Shraman Das
Nandan Madhuj
Anushree Shukla
M.R. Rakshith