
The Students' Placement Office (SPO), IIT Kanpur is maintained and managed by a dedicated team of office staff and students who are responsible for all areas of IIT Kanpur placements. The SPO team assists recruiters to the best of its ability. We are grateful for the trust placed in us by various organisations, and we hope to continue working with them in the future.
Why Recruit from IIT Kanpur ?
Academics 
Providing a rigorous and world-class academic experience with the help of distinguished faculty, amazing peer groups and carefully designed coursework.
Ranking 
IIT Kanpur is ranked 4th among engineering colleges in India by the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) in 2021, and 5th overall.
Alumni 
The alumni of IIT Kanpur have undoubtedly made their mark on the Global professional fronts. Most of them occupy leading positions in corporate, academia & the government.
Selection Process 
IIT Kanpur is home to the brightest individuals in India who have been accepted through a rigorous screening procedure like JEE Advanced, Gate etc.
Research and Development 
Access to the latest and pioneering advances in technology with the aim of acclimating students to the innovations in the scientific community.
All-Round Development 
Promoting the all-around development of students through a myriad of cultural and sports activities, fests, competitions and exhibitions.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Vice Chairperson's Message
From the desk of Prof. Sudhanshu Shekhar Singh
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (IITK), established in 1959, is one of the premier institutions established by the Government of India. IITK aims to create, disseminate, and translate knowledge in science, engineering and allied disciplines that serve the society. IITK has set a benchmark through its outstanding academic programs, quality education, and cutting-edge multidisciplinary research. We at IITK prioritize the 360-degree development of students to meet global standards. Our education system goes over and beyond the classroom lectures. We strongly agree with the overall growth of the students that ensures all our students are ready to meet the new challenges in life. In this regard, Students' Placement Office (SPO) takes utmost care to groom students according to the needs of the industry.
Our students are not only talented and dream high, but they are also equally capable of achieving this. Believe, as an industry, you will get the innovators here at IITK, who will significantly contribute to the newer heights of success.
Thanks to all our prestigious recruiters for extending opportunities to our students year on year. SPO of IITK welcomes you to join hands for a more profound and mutually beneficial relationship towards nation-building.
Partner and write your success stories with IITK.

Prof. Sudhanshu Shekhar Singh
Vice Chairperson
Students' Placement Office
IIT Kanpur
Email ID: spovc@iitk.ac.in
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Chairperson's Message
From the desk of Prof.Raju Kumar Gupta
I would like to warmly welcome all the current and prospective recruiters to the Student Placement Office (SPO) of IIT Kanpur. In this age, demanding continual technology enhancements, the industry requires talented youngsters with outstanding analytical skills, open mindset and innovative approach towards problem solving. I am glad to convey that IIT Kanpur is home to such bright young minds. Our next batch of students is all set to graduate soon and they are looking for opportunities that are appealing to their intellect and would help them realize their full potential.

At IIT Kanpur, we make every effort to hone the technical and analytical skills of our students through the rigorous coursework that focusses on up-to-date scientific knowledge and state-of-the-art technological know-hows in their respective disciplines. The UG curriculum of each department consists of certain compulsory courses on the institute level, core courses on the departmental level, departmental electives and open electives. The inclusion of open electives, wherein the students can opt for elective courses from any department, adds interdisciplinary component to the curriculum. In addition, each student is also required to take certain minimum course-credits in the department of Humanities and Social Sciences which greatly enhances their outlook towards the society and its needs. Our PG students, who are admitted at IITK after a very tough entrance procedure, undergo rigorous coursework consisting of advanced level courses. As the most essential part of their degree, they write their theses under the able supervision of our faculty who themselves are renowned researchers in their respective fields.

During their stay at IIT Kanpur, our students also participate in myriad of extra-curricular activities, which exposes them to and tests their skills in sports, cultural, dramatics, music and, allows students to develop a healthy personality. The students also get first-hand experience in organization and management of events through various leadership positions they take up during several annual events organized at IIT Kanpur. It is therefore no wonder that a student graduating from IIT Kanpur has an all-round personality.

SPO office facilitates the recruitment process for the students as well as the employers, by serving as an interface between the two. On the SPO portal, students can upload their resumes, which are then verified by a dedicated team of personnel at SPO. The employers can announce their job openings and job profiles after registering on the portal. The SPO strives to help both the students and employers in matching their interests and interacting with each other, with the ultimate aim of allowing well-informed hiring decisions from both sides. I am sure, our team of placement coordinators and dedicated volunteers will ensure that the recruitment process becomes a smooth and pleasing experience for both the recruiters and the students. We are always eager to improve and open for any suggestions from recruiters in order to make this experience even better. With this, I again welcome all the recruiters to IIT Kanpur.

You have come to the right place…and you will get what you are looking for! We look forward to welcoming to for the placements at IIT Kanpur. Have a happy placement experience.

Prof.Raju Kumar Gupta
Chairperson
Students' Placement Office
IIT Kanpur
Email ID: spochair@iitk.ac.in
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Director's Message
From the desk of Prof. Manindra Agarwal :-
Director's Message

Since its advent, IIT Kanpur has had the vision to provide quality technical education and act as a rostrum for scientific research, as well as a mission to develop human potential to the greatest degree. In accordance with this vision, IIT Kanpur has maintained an exemplary record of academic contribution for achieving excellence in teaching, research, and governance. A sincere effort has now begun to restore the vantage position of IITK as the top technological Institute in India. The students of IITK are a cherry-picked group. They have been chosen through a process that makes IITK one of the toughest institutes to get an admission.

The students usually come from varied educational and cultural backgrounds. The academic programs are designed to instil innovation, leadership, teamwork, and global focus in its students. Our alumni have excelled in every field, be it the core engineering, research and teaching, consulting and investment banking, IT and ITES, or administrative and social sectors. They really have made us proud! and IITK owes a lot to its alumni for its international reputation and national standing.

IITK has an excellent recruitment record. The graduates and postgraduates of IITK have been selected by some of the world’s leading corporations, as well as most of the leading Indian corporations. The exposure provided at this place trains not just for technological superiority but also for an overall understanding of the world. The undergraduate and postgraduate programs are continuously monitored and frequently revised to incorporate cutting-edge technological advances. Latest technologies are employed for effective delivery of knowledge and our course curriculum emphasizes both theory and practice. Exchange programs with leading technical institutes worldwide expose students to thoughts and practices in different national environments and cultures. IIT Kanpur has set a benchmark for itself on a global scale with the best of the technical institutions.

I welcome both the recruiters and our graduating students to come to this platform and get the best out of each other. Through this brochure, I offer a special invitation to all organizations and corporations! Do Come to the campus and test our budding talents. Those who know and expect nothing less than the best are not afraid of any realistic challenge. l hope that firms and our students will create synergies like never before. We will be happy to receive your suggestions to further improve the process of recruitment.

Let it be my privilege to welcome you to the World of IIT Kanpur.

Prof. Manindra Agrawal
Director
Indian Institute of Technology
Kanpur
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Samvardhan :
The Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur is a premier technical institute in India known for its excellent academic programs and talented student body. Students' Placement Office, IIT Kanpur, proposes the first Career Fest to provide students with a unique opportunity to connect with potential employers and explore their career options.
The objectives of Career Fest are:
To provide students with a platform to connect with potential employers and explore job opportunities.
To showcase the talent and skills of the student body to companies and organisations.
To provide companies with an opportunity to connect with IIT Kanpur students and build their brands.  
To promote the IIT Kanpur brand and increase visibility among potential employers.


Why Participate?

Brand Awareness :-
Companies can showcase their brand and increase visibility among potential candidates through their participation in the career fest.
Access to Talent :-
The career fest provides an opportunity for companies to connect with talented students from one of the top institutes of engineering and technology education, which can result in finding the right candidate for job or internship opportunities.
Networking :-
The career fest provides opportunities for companies to network with other participating companies and industry professionals, which can lead to new relationships and collaborations.
Market Intelligence :-
Companies can gain insights into the industry and the current job market through their participation in the career fest.
Cost-Effective Recruitment. :-
Participating in a career fest can be more cost-effective than traditional recruitment methods, as companies can meet with multiple potential candidates in one location.
Building Relationships :-
The career fest provides a platform for companies to build relationships with potential candidates and institutes, which can result in future collaborations and partnerships.
Reputation Building :-
Companies can enhance their reputation as attractive employers by participating in a career fest and showcasing their brand and culture to potential candidates.


Target Participants
The target participants for the Career Fest of IIT Kanpur are:
Students of IIT Kanpur
Companies and organisations interested in recruiting IIT Kanpur students
Industry professionals and experts


Event Details
The career fest of IIT Kanpur can include a variety of events and activities, including:
Panel Discussions: Panel discussions can be a valuable component of the career fest of IIT Kanpur, offering opportunities for companies and industry professionals to share their insights and knowledge with students. Panel discussions can be organised around the following topics:
Industry Trends: Panelists can discuss the latest trends and innovations in the industry and share their perspectives on the future of the field.
Career Paths: Panelists can discuss their career paths and advise and guide students on pursuing their career goals.
Skills and Knowledge: Panelists can discuss the skills and knowledge most in demand in the industry and offer tips and advice on developing and showcasing these skills.
Company Culture: Panelists can discuss the company culture and work environment and offer insights into what makes their company a great place to work.
Hiring and Recruitment: Panelists can discuss the hiring and recruitment process and offer advice and guidance on how to stand out as a candidate.

Workshops and Seminars: Workshops and seminars can be an integral part of the career fest of IIT Kanpur, providing opportunities for companies and industry professionals to share their knowledge and skills with students. Some of the workshops and seminars that can be organised during the career fest include:
Resume Writing: Companies can conduct workshops on how to write effective resumes and cover letters and offer advice on how to stand out as a candidate.
Interview Skills: Companies can conduct seminars on preparing for job interviews and offer tips on making a positive impression during the interview.
Networking Skills: Companies can conduct workshops on how to network effectively and offer advice on how to make meaningful connections with potential employers and industry professionals.
Career Development: Companies can conduct seminars on developing and advancing their career and offer advice on pursuing their goals and aspirations.
Industry Trends: Companies can conduct workshops on the latest trends and innovations in the industry and offer insights into what the future holds.

Virtual Industry Tours/Tech Demonstrations: In today's digital age, virtual industry tours and tech demonstrations can be an effective way for companies to participate in the career fest of IIT Kanpur. Companies can showcase their products and technology through hands-on demonstrations. Some of the virtual events that can be organised include:
Virtual Industry Tours: Companies can conduct virtual tours of their facilities, showcasing their products and services and providing insight into their operations and culture.
Virtual Tech Demonstrations: Companies can conduct virtual demonstrations of their products and technology, showcasing their capabilities and offering hands-on experience to students.

Hackathons and Competitions: In addition to the events and activities listed above, hackathons and competitions can be included in the career fest of IIT Kanpur as well, including:
Hackathons: Companies can sponsor or participate in hackathons, where students can work together to solve real-world problems and showcase their coding and problem-solving skills.
Innovation Competitions: Companies can participate in innovation competitions, where students can showcase their creative and entrepreneurial ideas.
Technical Competitions: Companies can participate in technical competitions, where students can showcase their technical skills and knowledge in areas such as programming, design, and data analysis.      
Product Demos: Companies can participate in product demos, where students can showcase their prototypes and innovative products.
Case Competitions: Companies can participate in case competitions, where students can work together to analyse and solve business problems.
Gaming Competitions: Companies can participate in gaming competitions, where students can showcase their gaming skills and compete against each other.

Career Fair: The career fair is the central component of the IIT Kanpur career fest, providing companies with an opportunity to connect with students and discuss job and internship opportunities. The career fair can be organised as follows:
Recruitment Meetings: Companies can meet with students one-on-one to discuss job and internship opportunities, conduct on-site interviews, and provide information on the hiring process.
Resume Collection: Companies can collect resumes from students, providing an opportunity to review the qualifications and potential of IIT Kanpur's talent.

Networking Receptions: Companies can participate in networking receptions to meet and connect with other industry professionals and potential candidates.

Keynote Speakers: Companies can provide keynote speeches and share their insights on current industry trends and the future of the field.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For companies
A collection of resources for companies to recruit at IIT Kanpur.
Procedure :
1. The Students' placement office appoints a point of contact(PoC) for you.
2. You will need to contact your PoC or any placement coordinators (or mail to spo@iitk.ac.in) for your account credentials on the Recruitment Automation system(RAS).
3. You need to fill out a Job Announcement Form (JAF) / Internship Proforma (IP) in the portal to share the offered profile details.
4. After verification of details by PoC, job/internship openings are visible on the portal as per dates decided by the placement team.
5 .Students need to submit their resumes before the deadline set for the company on the RAS.
6. Companies conduct their PPT and tests/screening process after finalizing the schedule with the placement team.
7. The company submits the final list of shortlisted students for the interview process.
8. The placement office allots dates of interviews and PoC for the interview process.
9. Companies need to confirm the dates with the placement office over email.
10. Companies provide the list of selected and waitlisted students at the end of their interview slot.    
11. The Placement office notifies the companies regarding the acceptance of selected students.
12. The company sends the offer letter to the selected candidates consistent with JAF/IP.


Placement Policy

The Students' Placement Office follows a strict "One Student, One Job Policy". Once a student is offered a job, he/she is out of the placement process
On completion of the recruitment procedure, the company needs to submit the final list of offers in a closed envelope to the placement office. The offers will be opened at the end of the slot* when all companies finish their process
No "On the Spot" offers should be made nor can any clue be given to any of the candidates during the placement interview.
In case a candidate receives multiple offers, the candidate has to make a choice at the end of the slot. The companies will be intimated about the final choice of the candidate two hours after the end of the slot, or receipt of the offers, whichever is later.
Since there is a high probability of multiple offers, the companies have to furnish a waiting list to the placement office along with the final offers. In case a student who is extended multiple offers chooses the other company, the first candidate in the waiting list moves up in the final offer list. The waitlist will not be disclosed to the students and will be released on a per student basis
Companies are advised to be in touch with the Placement volunteers and staff at all times. They should not entertain any direct contact from the students appearing in the placement process. In case of such a situation, the company must bring this immediately to the notice of the Placement Office.
In case of a delay of more than 60 days from the date of convocation (last week of June), the company has to pay the student the compensation for the delayed period.

* The slot allotted for the selection procedure by the placement office to the company is of 8 hrs. Although the companies are allowed to conduct tests beforehand to shortlist the candidates


Internship Policy
The Students' Placement Office follows a strict "One Student, One Job Policy". Once a student is offered a job, he/she is out of the internship process
On completion of the recruitment procedure, the company needs to submit the final list of offers in a closed envelope to the placement office. The offers will be opened at the end of the slot* when all companies finish their process
No "On the Spot" offers should be made nor can any clue be given to any of the candidates during the placement interview.
In case a candidate receives multiple offers, the candidate has to make a choice at the end of the slot. The companies will be intimated about the final choice of the candidate two hours after the end of the slot, or receipt of the offers, whichever is later.
Since there is a high probability of multiple offers, the companies have to furnish a waiting list to the placement office along with the final offers. In case a student who is extended multiple offers chooses the other company, the first candidate in the waiting list moves up in the final offer list. The waitlist will not be disclosed to the students and will be released on a per student basis
Companies are always advised to be in touch with the Internship volunteers and staff. They should not entertain any direct contact from the students appearing in the internship process. In case of such a situation, the company must bring this immediately to the notice of the Placement Office.
The internship should be held during the period starting from 1st week of May 2022 to the 3rd week of July 2022.
The Students' Placement Office follows a strict "One Student, One Job Policy". Once a student is offered a job, he/she is out of the placement process
On completion of the recruitment procedure, the company needs to submit the final list of offers in a closed envelope to the placement office. The offers will be opened at the end of the slot* when all companies finish their process
No "On the Spot" offers should be made nor can any clue be given to any of the candidates during the placement interview.
In case a candidate receives multiple offers, the candidate has to make a choice at the end of the slot. The companies will be intimated about the final choice of the candidate two hours after the end of the slot, or receipt of the offers, whichever is later.
Since there is a high probability of multiple offers, the companies have to furnish a waiting list to the placement office along with the final offers. In case a student who is extended multiple offers chooses the other company, the first candidate in the waiting list moves up in the final offer list. The waitlist will not be disclosed to the students and will be released on a per student basis
Companies are advised to be in touch with the Placement volunteers and staff at all times. They should not entertain any direct contact from the students appearing in the placement process. In case of such a situation, the company must bring this immediately to the notice of the Placement Office.
In case of a delay of more than 60 days from the date of convocation (last week of June), the company has to pay the student the compensation for the delayed period.

* The slot allotted for the selection procedure by the placement office to the company is of 8 hrs. Although the companies are allowed to conduct tests beforehand to shortlist the candidates


Facilities
Pickup services on payment basis from Lucknow(Amausi) Airport , Kanpur Airport and Kanpur Central Railway Station. Chopper rides from Lucknow Airport to IIT Kanpur campus can be availed on prior request to the Placement Office.
Fully equipped Seminar and conference rooms for Group discussions and Personal Interviews.
Centrally air conditioned Auditorium and Lecture halls, fully equipped with latest multimedia and Wi-Fi for Pre-Placement Talks(PPTs), Workshops, tests etc.
Facility of Tele Conferencing and Video Conferencing.
On campus accommodation in Visitors' Guest House for the recruiting panel (subject to availability).  
Access to all student profiles via a highly efficient and effective Placement Automation System (PAS).
Round the clock assistance by the students' volunteers at each level of placement process.
Highly motivated and experienced staff to coordinate the whole process.


Resources:-
Job Announcement Form.
Internship Proforma.
Placement Policy.
Internship Policy.
Campus Recruitement Brochure.
Campus Recruitment Guide.
Steps - Company Registration.
Departmental Brochures.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For students :
A collection of resources for students at IIT Kanpur.

Procedure:-
1. You must prepare a master resume and submit it by the specified deadline.
2. Before the deadline, the Students' Placement Office must receive the proofs justifying each point in your resume as well as PVFs (Project Verification Forms) from the project or internship mentor.
3. You must register on the Recruitment Automation System (RAS) within the specified timeframe as notified by SPO.
4. After you've registered, you are supposed to upload all one/two page resumes on the portal.
5. The Students' Placement Office appoints a point of contact (PoC) for your resume verification.
6. You would be assigned a time window during which the allotted POC would verify your resume.
7. Once your resume has been verified, you may begin applying to companies on the RAS in which you are eligible.
8. Following your application, you must attend all of the company's hiring events (PPTs / Tests / GDs).
9. If you get an offer from a company, the SPO would notify you and your account would be frozen.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

About IIT Kanpur :
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur is one of the premier institutions established by the Government of India in 1959. The aim of the Institute is to provide meaningful education, conduct original research of the highest standard and provide leadership in technological innovation. Consistently ranked amongst the top 5 engineering institutes in India over past several decades, IIT Kanpur offers courses in sciences, engineering, humanities and management. The students get the best of opportunities in the form of highly advanced courses, eminent faculty members, well-equipped laboratories, library, hostels and state of the art facilities to excel in research and development. The selection procedures for students at undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD levels are highly stringent so that IIT gets the best brains of India. Highly scientific and innovative technology is used for teaching and conducting research activities. Every year IIT Kanpur is enriched by the laurels brought by its faculty members and the students in the form of research publications, sponsored projects, fellowships and industrial consultancies. Many of our alumni are leaders in academia and industry around the globe. The sprawling IIT Kanpur campus is located in the industrial city of Kanpur, only a few hours away from New Delhi, the Capital of India.
Academics at IIT Kanpur :
Academics at IIT Kanpur empowers the students with scientific temperament and knowledge in diverse disciplines of science, engineering, management, and humanities and social sciences. The pedagogy at IIT Kanpur teaches the students to take an approach led by critical thinking to solve technologically challenging problems. The globally acclaimed education prepares the students for rewarding and exciting careers. The excellent education has enabled the alumni to succeed in diverse fields.
B.Tech / B.S.:-
Admission: Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Advanced
Duration: 4 years
Internships(voluntary): Upto 5 internships of 1-3 months
Includes a core programme common to all students; provides a foundation in introductory Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Engineering Sciences, Technical Arts and Humanities and Social Sciences. and professionally trains the students in their individual disciplines.
Minor :-
Our B.Tech/B.S. students can take 3 or 4 courses to gain specialization in a specific field of a department, other than their parent departments to get a minor.
Eg: BS in Mathematics and Scientific Computing with a minor in Economics.
Bachelor-Master Dual Degree :-
Our B.Tech/B.S. students can choose to convert to a dual degree (with Masters in the parent or any other department) till the end of 7th semester.Two degrees (BTech/BS+MTech/MS) are awarded at the end of 5-year coursework.No student is initially admitted in a dual degree program because we believe it is too early for them to decide their specializations.We want them to get a flavour of the department before they make such a crucial choice.
Eg: BS in Mathematics and Scientific Computing with MS in Economics.
Double Major :-
Our B.Tech/B.S. students can major in 2 departments, meaning a B Tech/BS degree in parent department along with a second major in department of their choice, in duration of 5 years. This requires the student to complete all department core courses of their second major.
Eg: BS in Mathematics and Scientific Computing with second major in Economics.
M.Sc. :-
Admission: Joint Admission Test for M.Sc.(JAM)
Duration: 2 years
Eligibility: Student with B.Sc.(Hons.)
Offered in Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics and Statistics. M.Sc. students of The Department of Physics are allowed to continue for a Ph.D.
M.Tech. / M.S.(R) :-
Admission: Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering(GATE)
Duration: 2 years
Acquaints the students with the various aspects of engineering through several courses, both introductory and in the specialized area followed by research, leading to a thesis on a topic in their area of specialization.
Ph.D. :-
The ph.D. program is aimed and designed to facilitate students in acquiring proficiency in the chosen area through coursework with a creative ability to solve new problems and a capacity to learn continually and interact with multidisciplinary groups, followed by doctoral research. PhD programm is offered in all disciplines of Sciences, Engineering, Humanities & Social Sciences, and Management.
M.B.A. :-
Admission: Joint Management Entrance Test(JMET)
Duration: 2 years
Carefully structured and integrated with classroom teaching, case discussions, hands-on industry experience with internship and project work. Continuous industrial interaction, seminars and live projects are a part of the curriculum.
Master of Design (M.Des.) :-
Admission: Common Entrance Exam for Design(CEED)
Duration: 2 years
The programme is interdisciplinary in nature with a strong emphasis on a balanced curriculum of theory and practice. The programme has three sub-groups: Product Design, User Interface Design and Visual Communication Design. Students are required to conduct a project and prepare a thesis as a part of their curriculum. Various workshops are also held to broaden the outlook of students and also in helping them in deciding their career.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Research and Development :
IIT Kanpur has always been among the pioneers in new research fields. The institute has coped with the changing times and requirements of R&D by enhancing its interaction with industries, working on projects that aim to advance the existing technologies and expanding the scope of the research work beyond patents and publications.
Our labs are equipped with industry grade equipments. Our lecture halls incorporate excellent audio-visual aids. We accommodate a great team of professors and professionals pushing frontiers in science and technology. They carry the banners of our excellent research quality standards.
FlexE
NWTF
SBERTC
Flight Lab
Tinkering Labs
Centre for Mechatronics
Centre for Cyber security
Thematic Unit of Excellence
Engine Research Laboratory
Centre for Laser Technology
Real Time Digital Simulation Centre
Advanced Centre for Materials Science
Advance Centre for Electronic Systems
SAMTEL Centre for Display Technology
BSNL-IITK Telecom Centre of Excellence

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alumni :
IIT Kanpur's rising global stature is credited to its distinguished alumni whose achievements in many different fields continue to make us proud. Our well-established alumni network is a matter of pride for us. It includes India's stalwarts in all imaginable fields: academia, technology, banking, entrepreneurship, public services, music and social service. IIT Kanpur recognizes the achievements and contributions of its alumni by conferring the Distinguished Alumnus Award (DAA) to honour individuals who have made a mark in their fields (Academic Excellence, Professional Excellence, Entrepreneurship and Management, Humanitarian Service). Our alumni too have generously given back to the institute. Their endowments have funded scholarships, departmental buildings, parks and other infrastructural improvements.With more than 45000 alumni spanning across the globe, they have been instrumental in strengthening the image of IIT Kanpur.
We have had many notable alumni who have received national and international recognitions in their respective professional fields. Some of the most notable alumni that IIT Kanpur boasts of are :
N.R. Narayana Murthy - Founder of Infosys
Pradeep S. Sindhu - Founder, Vice Chairman & CTO - Juniper Networks
Dr Ashok Jhunjhunwala - Padma Shri & Professor of Electrical Engg at IIT Madras
Dr Ashoke Sen - FRS & Padma Shri, Famous String Theorist
Subir Bose - Managing Director - Berger Paints
Mahesh Behari Lal - Chairman & MD, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd.
Satish Kumar Kaura - Chairman - MD Samtel Colour Limited
Vijay Mahajan - Former Dean of the Indian School of Business
Duvvuri Subbarao - 22nd Governor of Reserve Bank of India
Pawan Kumar Goenka - Chief Operating Officer(COO) of Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.
Late Professor Rajiv Motwani (Stanford University) - Backed the founders of Google & Paypal
Manindra Agarwal, Nitin Saxena & Neeraj Kayal - Gave the first deterministic primality-proving algorithm famously known as AKS Primality Test. Authors received the 2006 Godel Prize & the 2006 Fulkerson Prize for this result
Prof. Arvind - JOHNSON Professor , MIT, USA
Rajeev Chawla - Secretary of E-governance, Govt. of Karnataka

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Faculty :
IIT Kanpur has more than 413 faculty members with degrees from renowned universities worldwide. The Faculty at IIT Kanpur are involved in cutting-edge research both in the industry and within IIT Kanpur and hold positions as varied as editors of various international journals, visiting Faculty in many universities, advisors to government and industry. The contribution of the Faculty has been recognized frequently and has been honored with the awards such as:
Padma Vibhushan
Padmashree
S. S. Bhatnagar (more than ten in number)
Fellowship of Indian Academy of Engineering
Fellowship of Indian Academy of Science
Fellowship of National Academy of Science
Humboldt and JSPS Fellowships

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Students' Life and Activities :
Our campus community is a close-knit group that helps students learn, collaborate and flourish. Numerous student clubs and hobby groups allow students to develop skills in science and technology, showcase their talents in cultural, sports, films and media, and entrepreneurial events, and work towards numerous social initiatives. This plethora of activities guarantees that our students develop into all-round and responsible individuals. Additionally, IIT Kanpur is renowned for its inter-college students' festivals namely, Antaragni, Techkriti and Udghosh, which allow students across Indian colleges to display their talents, while constantly pushing our limits in efficient managerial skills and strategies. 


Student Innovation at IIT Kanpur :
IIT Kanpur has a rich history of unparalleled excellence in the field of research and entrepreneurship. The entrepreneurial skill of this institute is among the highest in the country, our very own SIDBI Innovation and Incubation Centre has won national awards for its commendable performance. Startups incubated here have also won various awards, and a very high percentage of them have matured. In addition to this, students from this institute have built their own nanosatellite Jugnu, built their own planetarium, and represented India in multiple international conferences like those of ACM and ASME. ITT Kanpur has been made a key resource centre to provide guidance for water sustainability; it has its own airstrip, flight laboratory, and wind-tunnel facility; the National Information Centre for Earthquake Engineering is located here; and opportunities like these give students a chance to excel in their chosen areas of research, how much ever diverse it may be.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Internship Policy 2023-24 :
The internship policy will be applicable to all the students who apply for internships extended through SPO for the session 2023-24. It will be followed for the entire duration of the session. Internship support provided by SPO to the participating (registered) students does not carry any guarantee of securing an internship opportunity.

Eligibility and Guidelines for internships :-


The role of the SPO (Students' Placement Office) is of a facilitator and counsellor for internship activities. Registering for an internship with SPO does NOT guarantee an internship.
1. SPO internship services are available only to students registered with SPO.
2. Applying for an internship with any company or joining a company is entirely the
responsibility/decision of the student concerned.

During the internship registration, the students must notify their preference on whether they are seeking academic or industrial internships.
1. Student choice (academic/industrial preference) will be communicated to
corporate firms where the student is submitting his application.
2. Students choosing the academic option will be permitted to leave their industrial internship if selected for an academic internship facilitated by SPO and/or any internship program facilitated through the Office of International Relations (OIR), IITK and/or IITK faculty.
3. No SPO-recommended disciplinary actions (internship defaulter) will be imposed on
students with an academic preference for backing out of accepted corporate internship
offers. 

Internship opportunities provided by SPO are a one-time internship opportunity extended
to registered students of IIT Kanpur.
1. Support services will be provided ONLY if their respective academic program allows the
student to take up internship opportunities.
2. A student is considered to have participated in internship activities ONLY if he has
registered for internships with SPO and has applied to at least one company in that year.
3. Priority for internships will be given to pre-final year students.
▪ Dual degree students may also apply for internships, provided they have
not participated in internship activities in the previous years.
▪ Dual degree students MUST submit a No Objection Certificate to SPO, duly forwarded
by their DUGC convener, to complete the registration process.
4. BTech students are eligible to apply for internships in their 3rd year only.
5. Double Major students can apply for internships either as students of only the primary
department in their 3rd year or as students of the Double Major in their 4th year.

The student must attend the entire Recruitment Process (including PPTs) of the company, to
qualify for selection. Failure to attend any session will disqualify the student from the selection process.

The student will not be allowed to withdraw a submitted job application AFTER the last day of the application deadline mentioned by the company.

If a student backs out of a job application (not appearing for the internship process),
disciplinary actions will be imposed on the student, which may include cancellation of
registration and restrictions on participating in future SPO activities.

Attending a Pre-Placement Talk (PPT) given by a company is mandatory for students who
have applied for a job opening in the company. 

Students must get to the PPT venue before the start of the session.
1. No students will be allowed to enter the PPT venue 5 minutes after the start of the session.
2. Attendance of the participating students will be taken by the SPO volunteers 5 minutes into the start of the session.

Exemption on attending PPT sessions is given below:
1. A maximum of two excused absences will be permitted for each student through the entire
internship season.
2. Prior approval (leave request form available on the SPO website) on this should be obtained from SPO (Office Manager) at least 24 hours in advance from the time of conduct of PPTs.
▪ Exemption approvals will only be given in case of health issues or any unforeseen
circumstances that are beyond the control of the student.
▪ Medical documentation explaining the reason for the inability of the student to attend
PPT should be produced for health-related issues.
▪ Leave approvals/leave requests submitted to the institute should be submitted as
proof for exemptions sought in any other cases.
3. PPTs missed due to academic clashes will not be counted in the list of 2 excused absences.
▪ The student should submit the details of the class, a copy of the class announcement
for the time period (sent by the concerned faculty) as supporting documents along
with a written request (or email).
▪ Proof of attending class will be sought from the faculty if the student is requesting for
absence due to academic clashes.

Failure to attend the PPT session will disqualify the student from participating in the selection process of the company (This does not apply to excused absence or absence due to academic clashes).
1. A student who fails to appear for a PPT session (non-excused absence for the first time) are required to meet SPO prior to their next PPT session and hand over a written explanation of the reason for absence.
2. The student will not be allowed to participate in the next internship process unless a formal explanation is handed over to the SPO.
3. The second non-excused absence will result in the deregistration of the student from SPO. The student will not be allowed to re-register with SPO unless agreed upon by the SPC.

Students appearing for any tests/GD/PPTs/interviews etc should be present at the venue at least 10 minutes prior to the start of the process.
1. Entry to the gate will be closed 5 minutes post the scheduled start of the session.
2. No students will be allowed to attend the session after gate closure and will be considered a non-excused absence from the session.
3. Any violation or forced entry after that time limit would be entitled to disciplinary actions as mentioned later in the document.

The student will be considered to have secured an internship if his/her name appears in the
selection list given by the company on the day of the interview.

SPO enforces one internship to one student at the first instance. It is mandatory for the student to accept the offer from a company if that is the only offer he/she has received during the day
of the interview.

If a student receives multiple offers for an internship in one day, he/she must choose one of the opportunities at the end of the slot. 

The opportunity created due to offer rejections (by students with multiple offers) will be filled in from the selection waitlist provided by the company.

Waitlisted students can appear for interviews the next day unless their selection confirmation is obtained from SPO. Policies for selected students (as detailed earlier) are applicable to these students once their name is included in the selection list.

The student is responsible to check/meet all eligibility criteria which might be required at the time of joining (academic, medical, etc.) for the opportunity he/she is applying. For example, CPI requirements set by the firm, medical fitness, etc.

Students are required to verify the internship details (package, job profile, terms and conditions, etc.) prior to signing the offer letter.
1. Verifying the details is entirely the responsibility/decision of the student concerned.
2. Any discrepancy observed should immediately be brought to the notice of SPO. Any concerns or queries related to offers should be directed to the SPO Team who will clarify the details with the company officials.

If a student gets an internship from anywhere other than the SPO, he/she must inform the SPO within 24 hours by sending an email to spooffice@iitk.ac.in with a copy to sposecy@iitk.ac.in. Students will be deregistered from the internship and will not be allowed to participate in the
selection process any further.

Obtaining proper documentation from the firm and submitting it to SPO after completing
the internship program is the responsibility of the student.
1. Project Verification Form (PVF) and Internship Completion Certificate should be submitted to SPO after completion of the internship.
2. This is mandatory if the student wishes to include those details in their resume for future placement activities.

The tentative deadline for de-registration from an internship is the last day of internship
registration, July 25th, 2023. Any changes in this will be intimated to students via email and/or will be posted on the SPO website.

In the case of de-registration, approval from the SPO chairman may be sought 24 hours prior to the deadline.
1. The student should send in an email request to sposecy@iitk.ac.in with a copy to spooffice@iitk.ac.in stating the reasons for de-registration.
2. Approval will be communicated to the student via email from the SPO 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Pre-Placement Offers (PPO) :

Companies contacted by SPO for internships will be informed about our PPO policy in advance

Upon receiving the internship completion certificate from the student, the company will be
contacted regarding any Pre-Placement offers extended by them.

After completing the internship, students MUST inform SPO of any intimation from the
company on the possibility of a PPO being granted in the future. SPO will follow up with the company further and help the student in receiving the PPO

Pre-Placement Offers extended to any student (from internships secured through SPO or
through off-campus mode) MUST be intimated to the placement office within 24 hours of
receiving the offer. This also includes offers extended by companies that are not participating in the 2023-24 campus placements.

Once a Pre-Placement offer is received from a company:
1. Students are required to decide on the offer within 1 week of receiving the offer letter or by the deadline mentioned by the company, whichever is earlier.
2. If a Pre-Placement Offer is received before the last day of registration for placements
(2023-24), the student MUST take a decision on PPO to be eligible for registration in placements
▪If a PPO is received after the start of placement season, the student MUST confirm his
decision within 5 days of receiving the offer, or before participating in the next
placement activity, whichever is earlier.
▪If a student continues with the SPO placement process after receiving a PPO offer and
accepts the PPO at a later stage, he/she will be limiting the opportunity of fellow
students in getting a job offer. Such cases, if found, will be reported to institute
authorities for disciplinary actions. SPO will also inform the firm that has extended the
PPO about the misconduct on the part of the student.
3. Any student found concealing the information about PPO will be reported to institute
authorities for disciplinary actions. SPO will also inform the firm that has extended the PPO about the misconduct on the part of the student.
4. Students are required to verify the job details (package, job profile, terms and conditions, etc.) prior to signing the offer letter. Any discrepancy observed should immediately be brought to the notice of the SPO who will clarify the details with the firm. 5. Details of joining (date, location etc.), if not mentioned in the joining letter,
should be communicated to SPO once the details are received from the company.
6. Students must provide their valid/alternate contact information (email, phone numbers,
point of contact at the firm etc.) in the specified form provided by SPO while requesting for no dues certificate.

PPO, if accepted, the job will be recorded, and the student will NOT be allowed to participate in the campus placements any further.

PPO, if declined, the student will be allowed to participate in the SPO placement process. A rejection letter will be sent to the company through the SPO.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Eligibility and Guidelines for Academic internships :

In an effort to enhance the participation of our student body in technology development, research and education, IIT Kanpur strongly encourage our students to go for research internships at organizations of international repute as part of their internship program. All participating firms’ processes will be advised of the fact that the institute is placing impetus on academic research internships and if the student secures an academic research internship in the future, the student can opt out of the industry internship.

Criteria discussed below cover ONLY academic internships facilitated either by IITK faculty or by SPO/IITK which include Research Track Exploration (RTE) facilitated by IITK-NYC office, TAMU- IITK intern program, MITACS Globalink research internships, IIT-DAAD internships and/or any other internship programs facilitated by Office of International relations (OIR), IITK.
1. Internships secured through direct applications or through any other sources will not be
considered SPO-approved internships.
2. Students selected for all non-approved academic internships will not be eligible for a
corporate internship waiver (details provided in the following sections) extended by SPO.
3. All full-time registered students of IIT Kanpur are eligible for academic internship services extended by SPO/IITK.


The type, duration and eligibility of these internships vary depending on the requirements set for individual programs.

Applying for internships, verifying, and meeting the selection criteria, application deadlines etc. are entirely the responsibility of the student.
1. Upon submitting an internship application, it is MANDATORY for students to inform SPO on
the details within 24 hours by sending an email with details to spooffice@iitk.ac.in with a
copy to sposecy@iitk.ac.in
2. Students if selected for an academic internship, which they have not informed SPO after
applying will be considered Internship defaulters and under no circumstances will be eligible for a corporate internship waiver (details provided in the following sections) extended by SPO.

SPO enforces one academic internship to one student policy.
1. Students MUST accept an internship offer within 2 days of receiving confirmation from the academic institute/concerned faculty coordinator.
2. If multiple offers are received within the time period, the student must accept one within the 2 week time period after receiving the first offer.
3. The student must inform in writing both SPO and OIR about his choice of selection within
this time period. OIR office will inform the remaining institutions that he has applied to
regarding the student's choice and non-availability for pursuing internships at the respective institutions.
4. If confirmations on academic internships are received prior to the day of corporate internship interviews, the student must make a selection on whether to opt for academic or corporate internships for being eligible to participate in the interview
▪ If the student chooses an academic option, they will not be allowed to
participate in corporate internship interviews.
▪ If the student chooses the corporate option, the academic institute (from where the
offer was received) will be informed about the offer rejection by the student.

Students with academic internship preferences, who have received an internship offer, need to fill up the Corporate Internship Waiver form to be eligible for a corporate internship waiver.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rules & Regulations :

The role of the SPO (Students' Placement Office) is of a facilitator and counsellor for
internship-related activities. SPO does NOT guarantee an internship. Applying for a company or joining a company is entirely the responsibility/decision of the student concerned.

A student must attend the entire Recruitment Process (including PPTs) of the company if one
has applied for its internship process. A student would be disqualified from the process of the company and placed on probation if he/she misses the PPT without any genuine reason**.

If a student withdraws from a company's process (not attending any of the GDs, tests, PI, etc.) after applying (without any genuine reason**), he/she shall be de-registered from SPO and shall not be able to apply for any Internship through SPO for that session.

If a student gets an Internship from anywhere other than the SPO, he/she must inform the SPO as soon as possible by dropping a mail to sposecy@iitk.ac.in so that all his applications for an Internship could be withdrawn.

A student, who leaves the Internship of SPO before or during the stipulated internship period after getting selected, shall be termed as an Internship Defaulter. A student must keep himself/herself available for the entire duration of the internship at the company, failing which students would also be considered an Internship Defaulter.

Each student must produce proof of completing an Internship if selected through SPO. A PVF
(Project Verification Form) and Internship Completion Certificate would suffice.

If a student directly contacts a company that comes through SPO, then it would be considered as an Off-Campus attempt.

If a student gets more than one offer on a single day, then he/she has the option of choosing between them at the end of the day. The choice must be communicated to the SPO
immediately.

A student must accept his/her offer by end of the day in which an offer is received and
applications from all other companies would be withdrawn immediately.

Discrepancies, false claims, or any objectionable content found in the resumes of a student
would prevent him/her from taking part in any of the internship activities for that season and make him/her an Internship Defaulter and attract further penalization as per the decision of Chairman, SPO.

Misconduct of any kind during the entire internship season would attract strict punishment as per the decision of the Chairman, SPO.

Any cases of fraudulent CPI would be dealt with severity and the case would be forwarded to
SSAC and would prevent the student from taking part in any recruitment activity during
his/her stay in IIT Kanpur.

In case of any discrepancies, all decisions are taken by Chairman, and SPO would be final.

**Genuine reasons include health problems, academic clashes, or other reasons that are
subject to the approval of the Chairman, SPO
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FAQs :-

Ques: What are the different ways a company can hire students from the campus?
The different ways of recruiting students are: Campus Recruitment Program in which final year students participate. Summer Internship Program for pre final year students which can be converted into a pre placement offer.

Ques: How can a company register itself for the Campus Recruitment Program?
To participate in the Campus Recruitment Program, a company must first contact the placement office or register on the website. The company is then sent the login details which would let them login in our Placement Automation System (PAS) enabling them to post job opportunities & see the profiles of students interested in their job opening. You can also find the detailed Placement Procedure here

Ques: Is there any fee associated with the process?
No. There is no fees associated with the registration or the placement process

Ques: When does the recruitment program start?
The recruitment season is held in December every year and the PPT's can be held anytime between 10th of August to mid-November. For a detailed itinerary, Please refer to the Employer Calendar.

Ques: What is the procedure to schedule a pre-placement talk (PPT)?
A company will only be allowed to hold its PPT after filling up the job announcement form. A typical pre placement session is scheduled for 60 minutes. In view of the academic calendar of the students, the session are scheduled between 6PM to 9PM on weekdays, and between 10AM and 5PM hours on Saturdays and Sundays. Student volunteers will get in touch with the company to fix a mutual convenient time for the session.

Ques: What kind of information do the students expect in PPTs?
The pre-placement talk is a platform for interaction between the company and the students. The presentation is followed by a Q&A session where students interact with company officials to get a better understanding of the company and potential roles. The important insights that the students expect from the PPT are: Profile and reputation of the corporation Career roles and responsibilities offered in different types of profiles Locations where the student is likely to be posted Compensation packages

Ques: On what basis is the slot allotted to a company for the final placement?
Slotting is done subject to the following parameters:Student Preferences, Work profile, Compensation package, Career Prospects, Student Intake, and Past relationship with IIT Kanpur

Ques: What are the infrastructural facilities available on the campus for the placement process?
The campus is equipped with state of the art communication, computing, and presentation facilities to facilitate a smooth placement process:Teleconferencing and video conferencing facility, Linux and windows lab for online tests, Centrally air conditioned auditorium, lecture halls, seminar and conference rooms for presentations, group discussions and interviews.

Ques: Are there multiple companies recruiting in the same slot? How is the case of multiple offers resolved?
Yes, there are multiple companies recruiting in the same slot.The results of all the companies are announced at the end of the slot and if a student gets multiple offers then he is allowed to choose between one of them and inform the office of his decision before the beginning of the next slot.

Ques: Can a company interview the students already placed in other company?
IIT Kanpur follows a One student; One job policy so once the job is registered against the student, he/she is not entitled to sit for any other company

Ques: Is there any facility for the accommodation available on the campus?
On campus accommodation on payment basis in visitors' guest house is available subject to availability. For alternate arrangements, the list of hotels is available here

Ques: How can one commute between the campus & airport/railway station?
The campus taxi service providers can be contacted for the same at the following numbers:
    Trimurti Travels - Mr Surender Yadav - 0512-259 5094
    Yadav Travels - Mr Rajpal Yadav - 0512-259 5095 - (Mobile : 93362 17156)
    The list of institute approved taxi operators can be found here and approved rates can      be found here.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resume FAQs :
 
Ques: What are the restrictions on resume format?
There are no restrictions on the resume format barring a few mentioned below. The top heading of your resume should be your Name, Department, year of study, and contact information. A table of educational qualifications should follow it including 10th, 12th marks, and CPI(UG and PG both if applicable) in reverse chronological order.

Ques: What should be the name of the resume file (one page)?
The resume file should be named as RollNumber_Name__Program_Department_ResumeNumber. For example, a student with the following details: Roll number: 190351, Name: Gyanendra Kumar, Program - BTech(BT), Department : Mechanical(ME) should name the resume files as 190351_Gyanendra_BT_ME_1, 190351_Gyanendra_BT_ME_2, 190351_Gyanendra_BT_ME_3.

Ques: How to mention JEE Mains/JEE Adv/any other examination ranks or other scholastic achievements in my resume?
JEE Mains/JEE Adv. ranks have to be mentioned in the numbers, not percentile. For eg, AIR 1234 in JEE Mains 2019. If someone wants to mention their rank in their department, a mail from the HoD of the department is required. Definitely mention the year of Activity or Achievement.

Ques: I don't have any proof for some points on my resume, but I can provide them after campus reopens. What should I do?
[Please note that the below exceptions are only allowed for Scholastic and Extracurricular Achievements.] For verification of 10th marks, 12th marks, and JEE ranks, a google form will be circulated through mail.All the students will need to fill out that for For the verification of any other scholastic achievements(if you do not have a scanned copy of the documents with you), you need to fill the following undertaking and include it in the zip file of proofs, to be sent to spoproofs2022@gmail.com. Undertaking Form[bit.ly/spoundertaking] These details will be cross- verified in the future and any discrepancy will be dealt with according to SPO policy.The points on your resume for which you will provide the undertaking should be # marked with a footnote 'not verified by SPO'. Such points should be given a # mark and a footnote only on the Master Resume, which is not visible to the company officials, and not on the one - page resumes, to be uploaded on the portal.

Ques: When is a Project Verification Form (PVF) required?
A PVF is needed to be signed by your mentor for any intern/project done under an IITK professor or any external organization (no PVF is needed for projects under institute clubs or course projects). Kindly ask your mentor/ Guide to send the filled PVF from his / her official email address to spoproofs2022@gmail.com.Only PVFs received on the given ID will be considered.Also, ask your mentor to mark you in cc.The PVF can be downloaded from here(spo.iitk.ac.in/docs/2021-22/PVF.doc). The subject and content of the project written on your resume should match that written on the PVF

Ques: How will my PoR/projects under the institute clubs be verified?
PoR and projects under Clubs/ Teams of IITK (summer projects as well) will be ratified through the lists sent by PSG, Senate Chairperson, MnC Gensec, or SnT Gensec.

Ques: I have some Self projects, how will they be verified?
For verification of such projects, one has to submit codes/git repo links/ (or any other proof ) as deemed necessary.You will have to clearly mention that the project is a self-project.

Ques: How to verify online courses/online projects?
For verification of online courses/online projects, you will need to submit the pdf certificate issued by the concerned organization. While mentioning the same on your resume, you will have to specify that the course/project was an online course/project.

Ques: Is proof required for Extracurricular points?
The proof is not required for points under this heading unless they specify a certain position ex. Got 2nd place in School debate competitions

Ques: My internship/project is ongoing and will not be finished before resume submission. What should I do?
Fill up the PVF with whatever work has been completed and ask your mentor to sign and send it to spoproofs2022@gmail.com.You will have to mention in the resume that the internship/project is ongoing

Ques: Can I update my resume after the deadline?
No, after the resume has been verified it will not be changed. The resume can only be updated in Phase-2 of the internship/placement season.

Ques: Will the Summer CPI be included?
Whatever CPI is there on Pingala during resume verification will be taken as final.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------






